Persons living with albinism have expressed concern over increasing cases of goitre and other symptoms of iodine deficiency in the country. Goitre describes a condition in which the thyroid gland, located in the neck, becomes enlarged due to iodine deficiency in the diet. The Publicity Relations Officer, Lagos State Chapter of the Albino Foundation, Otti Danmanplus, drew attention to the prevalence of goitre among albinos at an awareness programme themed ‘Albinism and the society’, organised by the foundation, in conjunction with the Onome, Akinlolu and Majaro Foundation, in Ikeja, Lagos. According to him, the misconception that albinos should not eat dietary salt is a factor that fuels this condition and other thyroid diseases. Danmanplus said, “You have probably heard people say that we don’t eat salt. I want this myth to be addressed because many people are suffering from goitre and iodine deficiency because some parents have refused to add dietary salt to the foods given to their children living with albinism. “Dietary salt is the human body’s source of iodine, which in turn helps the thyroid to function properly. However, when people believe the myth about the negative effect of salt on albinos and they don’t eat it, they suffer diseases and conditions that are related to iodine deficiency, such as goitre. “The sun is what you should avoid. But, if you avoid salt and go out in the sun, you can get goitre and become exposed to skin cancer.” The Chief Operating Officer, OAM Foundation, Onome Okagbare Majaro, said that persons living with albinism must build their self esteem and not allow the colour of their skins to prevent them from reaching their potentials. “I want to change the general perception of albinos so that they can reach their potentials. We cannot remain extroverts for life. This perception begins from parents. They are the ones that can motivate their children living with albinism. My mum read about albinism when she had me. She read about what I should eat, drink and about the likely changes in the lifestyle of an albino so that my skin would not be affected by the sun.” A consultant physician and dermatologist at the Lagos State University Teaching Hospital, Dr. Funmilayo Ajose, in her lecture at the event, advised albinos to avoid bathing with soap that contains lime and lemon. According to her, lime and lemon, being photo-sensitisers, make the skin more sensitive to ultraviolet radiation from the sun. Thus, they make albinos more prone to skin cancer than ever. “A lot of cosmetic manufacturing industries are now adding lime and lemon to their soaps and toothpaste. They call them herbal soap and herbal toothpaste, whereas they have only added lime. Lime is a very potent photo-sensitiser, which is something that makes you feel the heat from the sun more than usual. “So, if you are using any soap, make sure that it does not contain lime and lemon. Do not use a moisturiser that contains either lime or lemon because it will make your skin more sensitive to sunlight,” Ajose told a cross-section of albinos on Tuesday. The consultant dermatologist also advised albinos to avoid (or take with care) sulpha-based drugs, estrogen contraceptive pill, septrin and fuchsin for treating ringworm, which she described as having photo-sensitising properties. “I’m not saying that you should not take these drugs because, sometimes, they are necessary. But, when you are taking them, make sure you stay away from the sun,” Ajose said. The dermatologist, who described skin and eye problems as the major issues that albinos contend with, urged them to wear black instead of white clothes. She said, “Black is the best colour for your skin. Black absorbs ultraviolet radiation. When you wear anything black, the sun cannot penetrate your skin. But white is not advisable because white reflects light. If you go into the sun with a white shirt, the ultraviolet radiation will reflect on your face.” She noted that, despite the fact that albinos had been told to avoid it, the sun remained an important source of Vitamin D and a strong anti-cancer agent.