The Special Adviser to the President on Niger Delta, and Coordinator of the Presidential Amnesty Programme, Brig. Gen Paul Boroh (retd),  has advocated the creation of employment opportunities for beneficiaries of the programme who were trained in oil and gas. Boroh called on the multinational oil companies operating in the Niger Delta to employ the beneficiaries of the programme who had acquired specialized skills in oil and gas. A statement from the Media Unit of the Amnesty Office quoted Boroh as having made the comment while paying a courtesy call on the Group Managing Director of the Nigeria National Petroleum Corporation, Dr. Maikanti Baru, in Abuja on Friday. Boroh who emphasised the imperative of local content in the sector said the trainees had the capacity to make meaningful contribution to service delivery in the oil and gas industry. Boroh said some of amnesty graduates were first class and second class awardees whose employment would fast-track their reintegration into normal life. According to him, some of the delegates had shown commitment to develop their careers in the oil firms and other companies operating in the oil rich region. He recalled that 14 of the delegates graduated with First Class and 33 with Second Class Honors, Upper Division. The statement quoted the GMD of the NNPC, Maikanti, as having expressed concern over the adverse effect of vandalism, militancy and illegal bunkering on oil production. Maikanti promised to hold talks with major marketers to take advantage of the skills acquired by the delegates trained in oil and gas. He said that the Gas Revolution Industrial Park Initiative would impact positively on the ongoing efforts of the government to create employment opportunities and also provide a platform for the trainees to ply their trades. The statement added that the Amnesty Office had trained 872 in oil and gas, 140 in drilling, 53 in deep sea fabrication, 402 Marine Engineers, 40 Oil and Gas technicians, 4,643 in welding and fabrication, and 55 Ship Quarter Masters and others.