MediaTek has announced its collaboration with Ericsson to make Long-Term Evolution-Advanced features available in mainstream mobile devices. According to MediaTek, the partnership will ensure the affordability of devices that support the LTE-Advanced technology to consumers across the region. The announcement was made at the AfricaCom 2016, Africa’s annual telecoms conference and exhibition for promotion of promotes economic development and social empowerment through digital connectivity. A statement by the firm said the LTE-A Category 6 Carrier Aggregation would allow consumers to experience a network download speed of up to 300 Mbps and a 50 Mbps upload speed. It would also improve coverage quality, provide enhanced HD video capabilities, offer faster data access, and reduce packet latency. It added that the same segment of devices would be capable of supporting Voice over LTE, Voice over WiFi, Wi-Fi calling and Video calling over LTE, to provide operators a way to seamlessly move to all-IP connectivity on 4G networks and use their spectrum for advanced technologies. Currently, mobile devices that can support this technology are considered ‘high-end’, according to the firm. MediaTek’s smartphone chipset technology, which could enable consumers to take advantage of the benefits of carrier aggregation, would be available on affordable MediaTek-powered handsets for the mass market in Africa, it said, adding that it was the first time that two-carrier aggregation would be available at affordable prices. The General Manager, Corporate Sales International, Finbarr Moynihaan, said, “By collaborating with Ericsson, MediaTek can offer a superior mobile broadband experience at an affordable price. This is another step toward MediaTek’s goal of democratising technology – making world- class leading technology more accessible to everyone.” He explained that the collaboration would ensure the availability of devices that would operate on a faster, more advanced 4G LTE network to users in the region transitioning from feature phones to smartphones. According to the latest sub-Saharan Africa Appendix of the Ericsson Mobility Report, there will be 720 million mobile subscriptions in the region by 2016. That number is predicted to grow to over one billion by 2022. With about 300 million mobile Internet subscribers throughout the continent, it is clear consumers rely on their smartphones to enhance how they live, work and play.