In recognition of their immense contributions to the development of commerce and industry in Yorubaland, the Ooni of Ife, Oba Adeyeye Ogunwusi, has been given the Oodua Business Ambassador Award; while Chairman, Kakanfo Inn, Dr. Olalekan Are; and gospel musician, Yinka Ayefele, bagged the Oodua Face of Enterprise Awards at the OBA Awards 2016 in Lagos. The convener of the event and Chairman, Dawn Global Platform Solutions Limited, Adebayo Adeleke, said that the award was instituted to celebrate men and women who had done exploits in the field of commerce and industry. “For us to go where we need to go, we need to celebrate our heroes while they are alive,” he said. While appreciating the awardees for setting the pace in business for Yoruba youths, he challenged them to continue to give support to platforms like the OBA Awards in order to get rid of the get-rich mentality among the youth. The Chairman, Honeywell Flourmills Plc, Oba Otudeko, who was represented by the Group Managing Director of the company, Mr. Lanre Jaiyeola, was the special guest of honour at the awards. Are said that awards were significant in that it would encourage Nigerian youths to learn about the exploits of business leaders in the South-West, adding, “When you talk to young people, they usually don’t know those people who have been striving to do something for the nation. “I feel happy that I am recognised and appreciated.” While showing appreciation to the organisers on behalf of all the award recipients, Osunsina said sons and daughters of Yorubaland needed to organise themselves more for financial and economic empowerment. “It is a very wonderful event because it addresses the cause of Yorubaland. In Yorubaland itself, there are over 15 million Yoruba and if we can organise ourselves, we can do extremely well. The part of the country that performs well today is the South-West,” he added. Earlier, the Director-General, Dawn Commission, Mr. Dipo Famakinwa, said one of the ways the commission had been initiating a paradigm shift in the development of Yorubaland was the recent convergence of governors of the South-West states. According to him, the way out of poverty in Yorubaland and solution to the recession in the country is entrepreneurship through job creation. “The only and fastest way out of poverty and recession is entrepreneurship. We need to create jobs rather than our sons and daughters getting out of the university to look for jobs,” he added.