 The African Capacity Building Foundation Ahead of the forthcoming meeting of the Board of Governors of the African Capacity Building Foundation, Nigeria has pledged continued support to the Foundation in its task of developing human and institutional capacity for advancing the continent. Nigeria’s Finance Minister, Mrs. Kemi Adeosun, made the pledge at a meeting last weekend with the Executive Secretary of the Foundation, Prof. Emmanuel Nnadozie, who was in Nigeria to brief the Minister of the BOG meeting taking place in Abidjan from 30 June to 1 July. Mrs. Adeosun is the Governor representing the country on the ACBF Board. Prof. Nnadozie praised Nigeria for the USD 6 million it contributed to the Foundation during the five-year strategic plan due to end this year, saying it was the single largest amount given by an African country. He said the Foundation was ready to help Nigeria carry out an assessment of its capacity needs with a view to providing solutions. Responding, the Minister promised to match the last contribution to the plan if it could not raise it. “Despite the current economic conditions, we’ll match the last amount if we can’t increase it,” Mrs. Adeosun assured Prof. Nnadozie. Côte d’Ivoire in cooperation with the African Development Bank will host the launch of the 2017-2021 strategic plan during the meeting of the Board of Governors on 30 June to 1 July. The conference will also feature a donor pledging session expected to attract African governments and development partners. The ACBF’s Strategy 2017-2021 is anchored on the Foundation’s vision of an Africa capable of achieving its own development and aims to produce skilled people and strong institutions that will transform the continent. The Strategy builds on the experience accumulated and the lessons learned by the Foundation over the past 25 years as a leading institution in capacity building.   About the African Capacity Building Foundation Established in 1991, ACBF builds human and institutional capacity for good governance and economic development in Africa. To date the Foundation has empowered people in governments, parliaments, civil society, private sector and higher education institutions in more than 45 countries and 6 regional economic communities. ACBF supports capacity development with grants, technical assistance and knowledge across Africa. The establishment of ACBF was in response to the severity of Africa’s capacity needs, and the challenges of investing in indigenous human capital and institutions in Africa. ACBF interventions are premised on four principles: the centrality of capacity to the development process in Africa; the critical role of a partnership and demand driven approach in tackling capacity challenges; African ownership and leadership in the capacity development process; and a systematic, sequenced and coordinated approach to the capacity development process.