 A group, anti-corruption Mobilization Forum (AMF) has urged the anti graft agencies not to sweep the scam rocking the Osun State College of Education under the carpet.
The group said if the matter was not effectively handled, the President Muhammadu Buhari’s anti corruption war will be seen as selective and sectional. In a statement issued by the chairman of the group, Engineer Adedayo Orimoloye in Akure, the Ondo State capital, he said every personality involved in the case must be investigated and brought to book.
It will be recalled that the Independent Corrupt Practices and other related Offences Commission recently launched investigation into the allegation of N300m fraud levelled against the Chairman, Governing Council, Osun State College of Education, Ila Orangun, Niyi Akande.. Akande, who is said to be a close relation of the former interim National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress and a former Osun State Governor, Chief Bisi Akande, was accused of diverting the funds meant for some projects, together with other officials of the institution. It was gathered that the invitation letter from the anti-corruption agency to those involved in the alleged fraud caused panic among the principal officers of the school in April this year. Others accused of involvement in the alleged fraud are a former Acting Provost, Dr. Basiru Gbadamosi; the Registrar and Secretary to the Governing Council, Mr. Aderinola Adeoti; the Bursar, Mr. Akin Latilo, and Mr. David Olayinka Olojede, a member of the Governing Council.
Others include Mr. Oyegbade Reuben Abayo, Mr. Amobi Yinusa Akinlola, Mr. Ayoola Peter Olajiola, Mr. Moses Oyewole Otitoola, and Mr. Kujenbola Oluwafemi. The group hinted that the presidency, through the office of the National Security Adviser ( ONSA) had directed the Department of Security Services (DSS) to take over the investigation. AMF said the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC ) has been handling the case since March this year following a petition written and submitted by the Civil Societies Coalition for the Emancipation of Osun State and that nine persons fingered in the fraud had been invited by the EFCC for interrogations. The group alleged that the presidency’s decision to wade in to the case by directing the DSS to take over the investigation may not be unconnected with the series of complaints received from various civil society groups and individuals from Osun State over the case.