 Mix reactions have continued to trail the APC led administration’s recent introduction of free feeding programme in primary schools, as a social critic and University lecturer, Comrade Santos Ayuba Larab said it’s an unsustainable venture and has advised government to discontinue the scheme.
Larab in an exclusive chat with DAILYPOST in Jos, said the attraction for children to go to school shouldn’t be food. “Its not about starting it, it’s about sustainability. As much as I do not kick against it, we need to contextualized it with the realities of the time.
“As a government, have they been able to take stock of the number of children in schools? Have they been able to run an analysis whether they will be able to sustain it? Have they marked it that, we are going to do it for a certain number of years? These are questions that need answers. Larab who is a lecturer in the Department of History and International Studies, University of Jos, maintained that, “Okay you attract the children to come to school because of food and you can’t sustain it for one year or beyond four years, what happens to the next generation? “I think that the attraction to come to school should be what will make a community contribute positively to the larger society. I think the attraction shouldn’t be food. It should go beyond the narrative of food. “Okay you attract someone today to come and eat, tomorrow he doesn’t find the food, how do you intend to keep him in school? I think we should have a better attraction than this. So on the basis of sustainability I do not agree with this idea.
“Yes you want to attract these people to school, why don’t you empower their parents to give them good food to come to school with?” he asked. He further explained that once the parents are empowered, if they are farmers for instance, through fertilizer schemes, they can farm and can carter for their families. “Create market situations where a farmer doesn’t lose his products to middle men. Immediately after harvest, because he needs to meet up with pedestrian problems; that way they will be able to sustain their children”, he advised. “Another option is, why don’t they fix the public schools; like painting classrooms, having a playground that a child knows that he is coming to play football when he comes to school, having time to play with toys is a better attraction than food. “This will enhance the child’s creativity, if he knows that there is a room for him to play, he might even stay in school the whole day, that way you are able to keep him in school, but not a food thing. “It’s unfortunate that, we are just turning ourselves into consumerism, food, food, food, at the end of the day it ends up becoming a problem. “So I think the APC government should think beyond what they made as campaign promises; you can make a promise, now that you are in, you know the reality. It is better to backtrack with an apology to Nigerians, than to start what you cannot sustain,” he warned.