 Mrs Salamatu Hussaini Suleiman an Independent Non-Executive Director, Stanbic IBTC Holding PLC The management of the Stanbic IBTC Holding PLC has notified The Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE) on the appointment of an independent non-executive director on the Board of Stanbic Ibtc Holdings Plc Part of the statement obtained from the The echange site read “we are pleased to notify The Nigerian Stock Exchange that Stanbic IBTC Holdings PLC (“the Company”) has received all required Regulatory Approvals to appoint Mrs Salamatu Hussaini Suleiman as an Independent Non-Executive Director on the Board of the Company.” Mrs Salamatu Hussaini Suleiman former student of Ahmadu Bello University, Zaria  in 1981 as well as the London School of Economics & Political Science in 1987. Mrs Suleiman has her first career with State Counsel, the Ministry of Justice Sokoto in 1981, Continental Merchant Bank from 1988 to 1996 and NAL Merchant Bank from 1996 to 1997. Secondly she worked as Secretary Legal Adviser with the Aluminum Smelter Company of Nigeria from 1997 to 2001 and as Secretary and Director of Legal Services with the Securities & Exchange Commission between 2001 and 2008. Mrs Suleiman served as Honourable Minister with Federal Republic of Nigeria from December 2008 through to 2010. From February 2012, Mrs. Suleiman served as Commissioner, Political Affairs, Peace and Security, ECOWAS Commission through to April end, 2016. In a statement signed and released to NSE by Chidi Okezie Company Secretary of the bank stated that “we are optimistic that her wealth of experience will be of great benefit to the group. The Board and Management of Stanbic IBTC wish her all the best as she takes on this new appointment.” Barrister Mrs Salamatu Hussaini Suleiman is the founder of Alkali Hussani Foundation. ABOUT US Alkali Hussaini Foundation is a Non govermental Organisation (NGO) established in memory of the late Alkali Hussaini Gwandu, an accomplished scholar and Judge who devoted his life in pursuit of philanthropic causes and helping the underprivileged. Its key areas of focus are Poverty Alleviation, Youth Empowerment, Care for Orphans, combat illiteracy and enhance quality of education. Improve on healthcare services and the emancipation of Women from socio-economic, cultural and political limitations so that they may be better equipped to be actively involved and fully participate in nation building. NGO with mission of to empower and help communities conquer illiteracy, poverty, hunger and lead healthier lives and vision statement of to see communities where poverty, illiteracy and disease are eradicated and every member is empowered to become self reliant and contribute to national development. According to the statement, the foundation was aims with objectives in the operations as follows: To empower the youth in our target communities. To provide education and awareness to the less privileged in the society. To stimulate and develop income generating alternatives for women/widows, youths, orphans and physically challenged through training and the establishment of small business enterprises. To pursue programs that will generally reduce poverty and illiteracy, improve health and sanitation and uplift standard of living in communities. To establish of to secure the establishment of community centres for practical skills acquisition. To co-operate with any like minded organisation or body in the realisation of its set objectives.