 Riding on the success of the third edition which climaxed last December, PZ Cussons Nigeria has reiterated its commitment to nurture the winners in industrial chemistry by taking them on a facility tour of the company’s Lagos administrative office in Ilupeju, and the factory at Ikorodu. The four finalists of the 2015 PZ Cussons Carex Chemistry Challenge who went on the tour were Anthony Ekene Ike-Okoro of Top Grade Secondary School, Surulere, Wajud Kareem and Samuel Joseph, both of Abibat Mogaji Millennium Senior Secondary School, Agege, and Jude Nnaemeka Chineke of Great Esteem Secondary School, Surulere. The students were accompanied on the tour by Mr John Nna Odinibe and Mr Tolulope Joseph Odusanya, both Chemistry teachers. Mr Christos Giannopoulous, Chief Executive Officer of PZ Cussons Nigeria, alongside the Corporate Affairs Director, Mrs Yomi Ifaturoti, welcomed the students and their teachers to the organisation and also congratulated them on their emergence as finalists of the rigorous competition. Giannopoulous said: “I congratulate you on your success at the just concluded chemistry challenge. The company is focused on chemistry because of its importance to the society. I particularly salute your courage and enthusiasm to study chemistry and I hope in the nearest future you will be working in the corridors of this organisation and making an impact.” The group was received at the PZ Cussons Group training centre by Mr Pieter Stroek, Head of Research, Development and Innovation, who conducted them round the laboratories, while Mr Alex Goma, Managing Director, Family Care, encouraged the students to pick up some other skills while on internship with the company to help them become better in terms of management, organisation and accountability. At the Ikorodu factory, Mr Fred Omoiya, Administrative Manager, explained to the group basic safety precautions and emergency procedures of the organisation before they were guided around the factories.
On his thoughts about the facility tour Ike-Okoro, the 2015 grand prize winner, expressed satisfaction with the tour. “I want to thank PZ Cussons for this wonderful opportunity and I hope the competition will spur other students to take Chemistry and other science subjects seriously.”
Kareem, the first runner-up, said: “I really enjoy the experience; the factories, the machines and the way they work is really breath-taking. This tour of PZ Cussons’ facility has enlightened me and with this I hope it will engineer my enthusiasm.”
Joseph, who finished in third place in the competition, expressed his readiness for the internship, while Chineke graciously said: “I am very delighted with the experience of this facility tour and it has further boosted my confidence in the pursuit of my career.”
As part of its commitment to reach out to everyone, not just secondary school students, Carex, the competition’s sponsor, instituted an online challenge that is open to all individuals residing or working in Lagos State. Entry is absolutely free and the quiz is not strictly based on Chemistry. The online challenge will run monthly until April, this year and two winners will emerge every month. -thisdaylive