Washington, D.C.- Nigeria’s President Muhammodu Buhari has praised President Barack Obama’s “pace setting initiative and drive”, which, he said, has brought the global fight against the threat of nuclear terrorism to its present level he also hinted on Nigeria’s on wavering commitment against the threat of nuclear terrorism and other forms of international terrorism. The Buhari while presenting Nigeria’s position on global threat at the on going 4th Nuclear Security Summit being hosted by President Barack Obama at Washington, D.C in United States on Thursday stated that Nigeria is supporting all multilateral efforts aimed at promoting a common approach and commitment to nuclear security at the highest levels. He hinted that Nigeria has strengthened its legal framework hinged on the adoption of the amendment of 2013 Terrorism (Prevention) Act, to effectively fight terrorists. He said: “Nigeria accords high priority to all global efforts towards ending the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and their means of delivery, including nuclear weapons. “Nuclear terrorism is one of the greatest threats to international security and preventing nuclear terrorism and all forms of terrorism around the globe is of concern to all of us. “To this end, Nigeria has strengthened the legal framework for fighting terrorism through the adoption in 2013 of an amendment to its Terrorism (Prevention) Act, ensuring the implementation of more robust counter-terrorism measures in the country,” the President said. President Buhari also stated that Nigeria has reinforced its cooperation with the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA), the United States Department of State’s Partnership for Nuclear Security and the World Institute for Nuclear Security to enhance Nuclear Security. “In addition, Nigeria has signed an agreement of cooperation with the United States Department of Energy’s Office of Radiological Security to protect nuclear and other radiological materials from theft or sabotage. “Nigeria also intends to strengthen its partnerships with relevant international organizations to promote capacity building, particularly in the development of the Nigerian Nuclear Security Support Centre, Physical Security Upgrades and Human Reliability Programmes Implementation,” he said. President Buhari also said that Nigeria has developed a programme to ensure that radioactive sources in the country are better secured to prevent unauthorized access by terrorists and criminals. The President praised President Obama’s “pace setting initiative and drive”, which, he said, has brought the global fight against the threat of nuclear terrorism to its present level. 2 0 1 0 Read more at: http://www.vanguardngr.com/2016/04/buhari-hails-obamas-pace-setting-initiative-drive/?