President Muhammadu Buhari said the recruitment of 10,000 police personnel would address the challenge of youth unemployment in the country. The president said this at a ceremonial parade to mark the 2016 Police Week in Abuja on Friday. Mr. Buhari, who was represented by the Minister of Interior, Abdulrahman Dambazau, said the initiative would also address the manpower gap in the police. He advised the management of the police force to put national interest in mind in the recruitment in line with the reform agenda of the ministry of interior. “In carrying out this exercise, I expect the Nigeria Police to put national interest in the foremost,” he said. Mr. Buhari said that community policing had become more imperative considering the current security challenges in the country. He said it was in view of this that his administration had rested the internal security of the country on enhanced budget, addressing social factors among others. The president said the government had funded the procurement of over 1,000 patrol vehicles and other logistics to strengthen operational capacity of the police. He said in order to address the challenge of highly organised crime, government had strengthened the technical intelligence capacity of the police. “No nation thrives without security, and neither can a nation lay claim to security without an efficient policing service. “This administration shall continue to support initiatives that will guarantee the reform and modernisation of the Nigeria Police. “I must clearly recognise that the nation expects so much from the police,” he said. He reassured Nigerians of government’s determination to bequeath a reformed, re-oriented, well trained, well equipped and highly motivated police. Mr. Buhari said that the dream could only be attained with the support of the citizens. He commended officers, who in spite of the challenges had continued to display loyalty and zeal to confront internal insurgency. “We recognise the sacrifice of officers and men who sweat it out under the scorching sun, the drizzling rains and the cold nights to stay alert in order to ensure the safety and security. He said that the Police Week was aimed at restoring the lost glory of the Force. “In essence, the Police Week is a celebration of our history as well as an opportunity for the Force to reconnect with the people for a more effective policing,” he said. In attendance were representatives of the Chief of Defence Staff, service chiefs, diplomats, traditional rulers, among others. NAN