A cousin of former President Goodluck Jonathan, Azibola Robert, has initiated contempt proceedings against chairman of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, EFCC, Ibrahim Magu, before an Abuja High Court, over alleged refusal to release him. He is being kept in the custody of the commission since March 23, 2016, despite the order of court for his release. Robert had sued EFCC in a motion ex-parte dated and filed on April 5 and brought pursuant to Order 5 Rules 3 and 4 of the fundamental rights (Enforcement Procedure) Rules 2009, Section 35 of the 1999 Constitution (as amended). His lawyers prayed the court to make “an order granting his client an interim bail, pending his arraignment before a court of law by the respondent, EFCC, or pending the determination of the substantive motion in this suit,” which was granted by the court. On April 7, Justice Olasunbo Goodluck, after listening to counsel to Robert, Chief Chris Uche, SAN and Gordy Uche, SAN, ordered the commission to immediately release the applicant from detention. In the form 48, Magu is being warned of the consequences of the continued disobedience of the orders of court. Barrister Uche, had in a letter to the EFCC chairman, regretted that despite being served with the two orders of the court, the commission continued to detain his clients 10 days after in defiance of the court. Uche said: “This is regrettable, considering the fact that the government is one that has stated its commitment to respect for the rule of law and has pledged to prosecute the war against corruption within the ambit of the rule of law. “It must also be remembered that it is before the same courts of this country that your commission arraigns and will arraign suspects. “We, therefore, request that you release our clients forthwith as ordered by the court. Permit us to add that we shall be compelled to commence committal proceedings before the court if the court’s order is not complied with in line with your commission’s motto that no one is above the law.” The EFCC arrested Robert on March 23 over alleged diversion of $40 million through One-Plus Holdings, a sister company of Kakatar Construction and Engineering Company Limited, meant for securing oil pipelines. The payment was said to have been made by the detained former National Security Adviser, NSA, Col. Sambo Dasuki (retd)