After days of rigorous work on the 2016 budget by the 10-man Harmonisation Committee set up by the National Assembly, President Muhammadu Buhari will today receive the amended copy of the amended money bill today, it was gathered yesterday. The committee which is under the leadership of the Deputy Speaker of the House of Representatives, Hon. Yusuf Sulaimon Lasun, had immediately swung into action, following a truce meeting between President Buhari and the leadership of the National Assembly on Tuesday. Barring any unforeseen circumstances, the Lasun Committee was expected to round its assignment yesterday night ahead of the presentation of an amended copy of the budget to the President today. LEADERSHIP Weekend’s findings at the Transcorp Hilton, venue of the committee’s meetings, revealed however that its deliberations were not without rancour. A reliable source privy to the workings of the adhoc panel told our reporter that in one of the committee’s sittings, a spat ensued between the chairman of the House of Representatives Committee on Appropriation, Hon. Abdulmumin Jibrin and his counterpart in-charge of the House Committee on Finance, Hon. Babangida Ibrahim, who are both members. Fingers had been pointed at Jibrin in the House and Senator Danjuma Goje in the Senate, accusing them of distorting the budget, an allegation both have denied. Although the composition of the committee was not publicly announced, LEADERSHIP Weekend spotted other members like the chairman of the Senate Committee on Finance, Senator John Enoh, and Senator Abiodun Olujimi at the meeting. It was gathered that the choice of Hon. Lasun as the chairman of the Harmonisation Committee was informed by his neutrality in the whole budget saga. “He wasn’t part of the budget scrutiny ab initio and nobody has accused him of being a potential beneficiary of any budget padding. So, he was chosen to end the stalemate based on these two reasons,” a source told our correspindent last night. On whether the committee acceded to the President’s demands on what he termed as “grey areas” in the budget, the source added that the panel only took into consideration the yearnings of Nigerians. About 100 members of the Lower House were said to have teamed up to forge a common front on the budget matter, threatening a “showdown” if Buhari’s demands are not met by the National Assembly. FG Begins Preparation Of 2017 Budget The ministry of budget and national planning said yeaterday that it has commenced preparations for the 2017 budget. A statement by the director of information in the ministry, Charles Dafe, noted that the Minister of State, budget and national planning, Hajia Zainab Ahmed disclosed this when the association of national accountants of Nigeria (ANAN) paid her a courtesy visit. She added that the federal government had also started the preparation of the medium term 2016-2020 development programme to achieve sustainable development. The ministry also solicited the support of ANAN in building the capacity of the staff on zero-based budgeting (ZBB) application. Ahmed appealed to the association to assist the present administration to fight corruption. “As accountants, we can resist corruption, block illegal releases; we need to start from ourselves; we must uphold the tenets of our profession and make ourselves clean and accountable always. Our administration came on a change mantra; we shall be transparent and accountable to all Nigerians”, she said. Earlier, Anthony Nzom, president of ANAN, promised to provide technical knowledge to the staff of the ministry on ZBB concept adopted in the 2016 budget. Nzom commended President Muhammadu Buhari for appointing two members of ANAN – Zainab Ahmed as minister and Tijjani Abdullahi as director-general of budget office.