The Conference of Nigeria Political Parties (CNPP) has called on President Muhammadu Buhari to relieve all former governors in his cabinet of their duties and appoint technocrats to run his change agenda if wants to succeed in attracting foreign investment into the country. Ex-Governors in President Muhammadu Buhari’s cabinet include Babatunde Fashola, Rotimi Amaechi as well as Kayode Fayemi. CNPP gave the advice in a statement issued in Abuja, which was signed by its Secretary General, Chief Willy Ezugwu. According to the CNPP, unless the former governors serving in his cabinet were removed, the image of the regime will remain tainted with corruption, his anti graft war not withstanding. CNPP recalled that some of the former state executives left their states with empty treasury, leading to the bailout loan by the Buhari administration just to enable them pay salary arrears of their workforce. “For President Muhammadu Bujhari to succeed in his change agenda, all former governors in his cabinet must be sacked to create room for technocrats to run his government if he must succeed. “Some former governors serving in this government not only left their respective states with empty treasury but also in heavy debts such that it took Mr President’s bailout fund for salary arrears of state workers to be paid. “The states were so indebted that fillers from the state indicate that the bailout fund was not enough to clear salary arrears in some states. “It is imperative that Mr President relieves the former governors of their positions and appoint technocrats to give the administration a fresh face as their presence in the government has left it tainted with corruption.” The statement also reminded President Buhari that foreign investors he was labouring to attract will not come as most of them had the records of some of the former governors that ran their states aground. “It will amount to effort in futility for the President to be labouring to attract investors as they will not entrust their hard-earned resources to well known bad managers. “This is the reason the Buhari government will be one year next month, yet the regime has nothing to show for it except hardship and more hardship across the country despite the change mantra”, the statement read.