An army of notorious Fulani herdsmen have again invaded the Akure farm of an elder statesman and  former Secretary to the Government of the Federation SGF, Chief Olu Falae, killing one of his Oodua Peoples Congress, OPC security guards. It would be recalled that five fulani herdsmen are currently standing trial at the state High Court over the kidnap o f Chief Falae in October last year. The NADECO chieftain was released following a coordinated operation by security agents with an undisclosed “huge millions of naira” paid as ransom. On this account, the former Ondo state Police PRO, Wole Ogodo, was transferred and demoted following a statement he issued to the press attributing the kidnap to Fulani Herdsmen which did not go down well with the president. The corpse of the security guard was later discovered few days ago inside a pool of water which is few kilometers to the farm. Saturday It was gathered that the herdsmen invaded the farm last weekend and they were restricted by the security guards engaged by the politician following incessant invasion of the farm. The herdsmen, according to sources, retreated only to surface again and reportedly kidnapped one of the security guards on the farm. We learnt that the matter was reported at the state police command and a search party was organized following which his corpse was discovered days later. The state police command which had sent out invitation for a Press briefing to newsmen in the state yesterday abruptly cancelled it. Commissioner of Police, Hilda Harrison did not give any reason for the cancellation of the media briefing. But sources at the state Police Command said that the assignment may have been halted because the Commissioner had no approval from the Inspector General of Police. The Police spokesman, Femi Joseph, declined comment on the recent attack and killing of the security guard of the former Finance Minister. Joseph said that all the questions should be directed to the Police Commissioner. Also, the Personal. Assistant to chief Falae, Moshood Raji said that the matter was a criminal matter and would be handled by the state Police Command . Raji said he could not comment on the development because the police were still investigating the matter. The mobile telephone of Chief Falae was switched off permanently on Friday. His Oba-ile residence when visited was deserted Friday night.