The fear and panic that has gripped the country following increasing terror threats heightened by a doom prophecy by Nigerian prophet and televangelist, Temitope Balogun Joshua, commonly referred to as T.B. Joshua, has prevented over 600 foreign nationals from attending an international programme being held at the Accra International Conference Centre (AICC). The prophet by T.B. Joshua, founder and leader of Synagogue Church of all Nations, according to organisers, has put fear in the international participants from Europe, America, Asia, and even other African countries, hence, the cancellation of their flights to Ghana. The daily heritage was reliably informed that the spouses and relatives of some of the participants stopped the foreigners from travelling to Ghana for fear of being attacked by terrorists. The programme, ‘Africa-Israel initiative, Ghana’ which began on Wednesday, April 13 and will end today had an incredibly low turnout on the opening day though organisers had assurances of participation weeks ago. The food, drinks and water meant for the invited guests had to be sent to the Osu children’s home to avoid wastage. On Saturday April 10, Prophet T.B. Joshua during a live church service aired on Emmanuel TV channel warned of possible terrorist attack in Ghana and Nigeria. ‘I am seeing Thursday, Friday and Saturday – if I may say Thursday – because these evil people they are very funny. Anything can just happen. You will be very shocked to see what will happen, because when the prayer is going in this direction them (attackers) change to (another) direction.’ He predicted. While stressing that the attack would happen this month, the prophet urged the congregation to pray for Ghana and Nigeria. Confirming the effects of the prophecy on the programme, the country director of the Africa-Israel initiative, Rev. Perey Gilbert Apreala told the daily heritage that indeed the prophecy was responsible for the low turnout. ‘He has caused fear and panic among the foreigners so they could not attend the event for fear of any terrorist attack,’ Rev. Apreala stated. The three day conference seeks to strengthen Ghana-Israel relationship, as well as promote Israeli technology and how to tap into the new trends to drive businesses in Ghana and Africa as a whole. At the conference grounds, security was very tight. Individuals were screened at the main gate and before entering the AICC. Some of the Ghanaian participants the paper spoke to expressed disquiet about the development, but noted that the programme was educative and the knowledge they have acquired would be utilized to transform their various work places.