The Guardian (Guardian.ng), Nigeria’s most trusted newspaper, launched its online TV platform, Guardian TV (TV.Guardian.ng), on Wednesday, April 27. Guardian TV will provide exclusive video interviews, as well as up-to-the-minute videos from across the world, and will be available on virtually any device that has an internet connection, including personal computers, tablets, smartphones, and Smart TVs. Guardian TV has partnered with some of the world’s top online news and video outlets in order to provide it’s viewers with the best in news entertainment and sport. Partners include Al Jazeera, AFP, Reuters, CNBC Africa, Bloomberg, Forbes Africa TV and France 24. The list also includes Blustar Entertainment, Ebony Life TV, Ovation TV, Frontera, Channels TV, and Omnisport, the world’s number one sports content provider. The website, TV.Guardian.ng, was officially launched today, and The Guardian’s Executive Director, Toke Alex Ibru, is confident Guardian TV will revolutionise the short form video content market in this part of the world. He says: “Guardian TV will offer content providers a platform to reach out to larger audiences and demographics, both locally and internationally. I expect Guardian TV to in the not-too-distant-future become the number one source in Nigeria for quality short videos on news, entertainment and sports.” The service is being launched in partnership with Ventra Media Group a full-service digital marketing and rights agency whose range of services includes digital strategy, growing social media audiences and planning, as well as buying digital media for brands and content owners. The outfit also specialises in platform development and monetisation for content owners such as The Guardian. Daryn Wober, CEO, Ventra Media Group says, “We believe that Guardian TV represents the first of its kind in the market where a traditional newspaper business has stepped forward to provide a dedicated online video platform. The combination of Ventra’s product and technical expertise combined with the online reach of The Guardian will provide audiences with an unparalleled service.” The launch of Guardian TV comes after the complete re-launch of The Guardian’s digital platform. The new service is part of a continued investment by the group in to its digital operations and products. The organisation has signalled its intent to launch products and services that can compete on an international basis.