An interview conducted by Pulse TV with Tiwa Savage and posted on You tube has given a deeper insight into why the marriage between the two celebrities may have been irretrievably crashed.  She disclosed how she went to Jamaica for a video shoot and lost her pregnancy there and tried reaching her husband but he refused to even respond to her calls, despite sending pictures  of herself in the hospital bleeding. She claimed to have come back to see a lady’s messages as well as other chats indicating that while she was in the hospital abroad, her husband was in an hotel with another woman. She also disclosed that her husband stole from her while he was her manager and that was why she had to sack him. She cited one instance in which he collected money for a show and  claimed they had not paid him only for her to find out that he had been paid and not only that, he collected N4.5million instead of N3million, he declared. When she realised that the instances were becoming too many, she had to sack him. She also spoke on his ability to fend for the home. According to her, ordinary diaper, he could not buy yet be barbed his hair twice a week and took ladies to hotel. She said that she deliberately kept it off the public because of the scandal it could generate and that she was willing to continue to bear it all and  ‘keep walking on eggshells’, stating that he had incurred bills and debts for which she had to be responsible. She cited the instance of N45million which he allegedly borrowed and for which EFCC was after him and how she has been running from pillar to post to pay up. She also spoke on how she caught him taking cocaine in the house one day and how she was so shocked and shouted while her husband  flared up asking her where she saw cocaine and wondering what she was doing there. Tiwa Savage in the interview disclosed that the marriage was over and that God really wanted to put a stop to the whole thing that was why he allowed the event of his suicide attempt to happen and that her estranged husband was indeed having suicidal tendencies.