The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) on Monday arraigned in absentia, a former Niger Delta militant leader, Government Ekpemupolo (alias Tompolo) before a Federal High Court, Lagos. He was arraigned alongside six brothers of a former Director-General of the Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency (NIMASA), Patrick Akpobolokemi. They are Igo Akpobolokemi, Julius Akpobolokemi, Victor Akpobolokemi, Norbert Akpobolokemi, Emmanuel Akpobolokemi and Clement Akpobolokemi. They were arraigned on a 22-count charge bordering on N47 billion fraud. They were however declared as being “now at large” when the charges were read. Meanwhile, Patrick Akpobolokemi was also arraigned alongside three others, Josephine Otuaga, Rita Uruakpa and Kime Engozu. Companies listed in the charge are Mieka Dive Training Institute Ltd/GTE, Oyeinteke Global Network Ltd, Wabod Global Resources Ltd, Boloboere Properties Estate Ltd, Gokaid Marine Oil and Gas Ltd and Watershed Associated Resources. The charges bordered on conspiracy, advanced fee fraud and money laundering. All accused persons pleaded not guilty to the charges. The judge, Justice Ibrahim Buba, however, admitted the accused persons to bail. The judge allowed Mr. Akpobolokemi, who had earlier been arraigned before him, to continue with a N50 million bail earlier granted him on March 22. The second accused, Mr. Engozu, also earlier arraigned was allowed to continue with the same bail earlier granted him on March 22. The third and fourth accused Messrs Otuaga and Uruakpa – were granted bail in the sum of N50 million each with one surety in like sum. The judge ordered that the sureties must be resident in Lagos and must own a developed landed property. He added that they must swear to an affidavit of means and adjourned further proceedings to May 30. In the charge, the EFCC alleged that the accused persons conspired to defraud the Federal Government between Dec. 2, 2014 and April 10, 2015. The prosecution alleged that the accused falsely declared that a parcel of land and its appurtenances situated at Mieka Dive Training Institute in Warri, had been acquired by NIMASA. The land was said to be for construction of the temporary campus of the Nigerian Maritime University, Okerenkoko, which declarations were said to be false. The EFCC also alleged that sometime in 2014, the accused fraudulently converted the sum of N13 billion belonging to NIMASA to their private use. The offences contravened the provisions of Section 18 (a) of the Money Laundering (Prohibition) (Amendment) Act, 2012. The offences also contravened the provisions of Section 1 (b) of the Advanced Fee Fraud and other Fraud related Offences Act, 2006.