The Lagos State Government on Thursday disclosed a plan to sign a memorandum of understanding (MoU) on the development of fourth Mainland Bridge before May 29. The state government has also stated that the Lagos Light Rail (Blue Line) project is 85 per cent completed, thus indicating that the project might be completed before the end of 2016 fiscal year. The state Governor, Mr. Akinwunmi Ambode, provided details about the two strategic projects while presenting his account of stewardship at the third quarterly town hall meeting held at Ikorodu part of the state. The town hall meeting was attended by many residents, including members of the State Executive Council, lawmakers from federal and state legislative assemblies, traditional rulers, community leaders and political actors among others. At the meeting, Ambode disclosed that many investors “have shown interest in the actualisation of our dream for the 4th Mainland Bridge, which will run from Ajah to Ikorodu.” He added that the bridge, which was conceived during the administration of Governor Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, would berth at Ojodu, Ikeja back to the Ibadan expressway. He explained that the state government “will sign the MoU on the bridge before May 29. And once the MOU was signed next month, works will commence on the bridge, and its development will boost the economy of Lagos East senatorial district.” The governor also gave an update on the ongoing construction of Lagos Light Rail (Blue Line), noting that the first phase of the project “has already reached 85 per cent completion rate.” He further provided insight into what the state government had been able to do to ensure sustained security in Lagos metropolis, noting that since the launch of the N4.78 billion security equipment, the state had won several battles against crimes. Ambode said the quick response in the rescue of the kidnapped girls in Ikorodu and the quelling of the Mile 12 riot were testimonies of the effectiveness of the security system in Lagos. He said many criminals had been arrested since the launch of the security equipment, thus disclosing his intention “to pay for information that will lead to the arrest of hardened criminals. “I am ready to pay monetary compensation for information on hardened criminals as we proceed to make Lagos crime-free. We are happy to report that crime rate has also reduced in the last three months.” On commercial motorcyclists Okada riders on Ikorodu road, Ambode ordered the Commissioner of Police and other security agencies to enforce the law on the route and ensure that the motorcyclists do not carry passengers from Mile 12 to Ikorodu on the expressway. “As much as motor bikes are dangerous to our safety and security; as government, we must create alternative. But I am happy all our leaders are here. With what we have done, I do not think anybody will want to ride on bike again, it will fizzle out before I take my final action. “The truth is about safety. We have banned bikes on that axis, the Commissioner of Police, Rapid Response (RRS) and other security agencies should enforce the law. Anyone you take, you send them out of business. You have to confiscate the motor bike and prosecute the people.” Also, the governor said his administration had recorded success in its Light Up Lagos Project as 68 rural communities were recently connected to the national grid while massive street and road lightings were ongoing across Lagos State, saying that places like Ile-Zik down to Tollgate on Lagos-Abeokuta Expressway had been lit up. He added that he had paid N561 million as West African Examination Council, WAEC, fees of 46,000 public school students in the state for this year’s Senior Secondary School Certificate Examination.