Governor Olusegun Mimiko of Ondo State has actualised the dream of a  semi-mechanised Abattoir 33 years after the idea was conceived as the project is now ready. Though land was allocated for the project since 1983 following  the need for a befitting and hygienic Abattoir, successive administrations in the state could not make progress with the project until assumption of office the  incumbent government. According to the state Commissioner for Information, Kayode Akinmade who was on an inspection tour of the facility with newsmen in company with his Agriculture counterpart, Mr. Segun Ayerin, Mimiko administration had succeeded with the Abattoir project for the use of the  people of the state and it is  now ready for commissioning.” Giving details of the facility, Ayerin observed that the factory was for the slaughtering and processing of meat, with 78 slaughter slabs, that surpass the grade c traditional abattoir  which was long overdue, outdated and had been a major breeder of foodborne disease. The new semi mechanised Abattoir which he said improved quality of meat, had 12 components which  include office complex, meat quality control, public toilet, laboratory, lairage, administrative block, slaughtering hall and modern water supply system. He said the semi mechanised Abattoir could process 2,000 heads of cattle in 24 hours, while it targets processing of 200 animals in four hours –  8a.m to 12p.m. Occupying a landscape of 18 hectares, which houses the cattle market, animal disease inspection and surveillance point, the Abattoir as well as goat and sheep market,  that  facility which is located on Akure – Ado road in Akure welcomed  animal first into the Lirage, which is a twin building in 10 compartments and five cells sited at opposite directions. Each cell accommodates 15 animals of 100 – 150 kilogrammes, but 10 animals if above 200 kilogrammes. The Lirage, he further explained, was   an apartment at the facility where animals were expected to experience rest, drink but no feeding and be stress – free before execution and accommodated 300 cattle a day for a maximum of 24 hours. Through the Lirage, the agony experienced by the animals is reduced and the Lirage also helps in keeping up to date record of the animals down to their sources. The Lirage clerk takes a record of each animal cum its owner and its source, before slaughtering. At the Lirage, the animal undergoes a clinical inspection to ascertain its state of health before death. “The semi mechanised Abattoir is so sophisticated such that Veterinary Doctors are readily on ground to critically cross examine the animals, while the sick ones will be separated for re-examination, treatment or possibly slaughtered or buried if it’s not advisable to be taken for consumption” he added.