Ado-Ekiti — One of the six doctors from Ekiti State, who died in a ghastly motor accident on their way to Sokoto, late Dr. Tunde Aladesanmi, was buried amid tears at his family residence in Araromi Quarters off Adebayo in Ado Ekiti on Wednesday. The daughter of the deceased, Jesutofunmi, who prayed for her late father to appear to her in a dream said “My sweet dad, I love you so much. I know you are dead but I believe you are still with me. Please, just appear to me in a dream and make me brilliant and tell me you love me. I will always make you proud dad.” The funeral rite was performed at the Redeemed Christian Church of God, Life Fountain Cathedral on Bank Road in the state capital. This came as Nigeria Labour Congress, NLC, commiserated with the leadership of Nigerian Medical Association, NMA over the death of its members. Six doctors working with FETHI, Ekiti State University Teaching Hospital, Ado Ekiti and Ekiti State Hospital’s Management Board and their driver, on Sunday died in a tragic motor accident along Kaduna road while on their way to Sokoto to attend NMA’s Annual General Meeting. Meanwhile, NLC in a statement by its president, Ayuba Wabba, lamented that “Nigeria already suffers deficit in terms of number of medical doctors. With 40,000 doctors for a population of two hundred million, (average of one doctor for 5000), the tragic death of six working medical doctors is a great loss to the Nigerian Medical Association (NMA), Nigeria and all the working people represented by NLC. Given that it takes on the average a decade to train a Medical Doctor, Nigeria has lost 6 decades of investment in human capital. This is another unfortunate tragic awakening on the need for road safety.”Deputy Governor Kolapo Olusola led the state government officials to the ceremony where friends and families extolled the virtues of the late surgeon. Olusola, who represented Governor Ayodele Fayose, urged the family to remain firm in God. He said “God in his infinite wisdom allows certain things to happen because he knows the end from the beginning. The enemy has not succeeded.” Pastor Steven Omotayo of Ekiti Province 1, in his sermon, cautioned people against making derogatory remarks during sudden sad occurrence. “When sudden things happen to you, watch your mouth,” he said. The President of Nigerian Medical Association, Dr. Kayode Obembe, represented by the Ogun NMA Chairman, Dr. Adenike Odewabi said Aladesanmi imparted positively on people that came across him. He said, “even though his life short, we will defend the dream he lived for. We shall live with his principles and ideals. His memory will continue in our. Kinds. He has lived a worthy life.”