The president of the Senate, Bukola Saraki, has requested the National Assembly Service Commission to reverse the appointment of Mohammed Sani-Omolori, as the Clerk to the Assembly, to allow further consultations. Mr. Sani-Omolori was named the acting Clerk to the National Assembly on Wednesday in a letter by the Executive Chairman of the NASC. He was until his appointment the Clerk of the House of Representatives. In a letter dated April 21 by his Chief of Staff, Isa Galaudu, to Mr. Fika, the senate president, who is the chairman of the National Assembly, said the appointment did not follow due process. He argued that the Commission should have first considered Ben Efeturi, who is currently the deputy clerk to the National Assembly, for the position to replace Salisu Maikasuwa, who is proceeding on pre-retirement leave this month. The letter said, “The President of the Senate and the Speaker of the House of Representatives were informed that Mr. Efeturi was not considered for the appointment because he was not duly appointed as Deputy Clerk of the National Assembly. “On further enquiry, we found he was duly appointed by the National Assembly Service Commission vide Extract from Minutes of its 403rd Meeting held on Friday, 21st November, 2014. “From the foregoing, you have misled and misinformed the President of the Senate and Speaker of the House of Representatives. “Consequently, I am directed by His Excellency, the Senate President, to inform you that the letter appointing Mr Sani Omolori as Acting Clerk of the National Assembly, be withdrawn immediately for further consultations.” Below is Saraki’s Letter 21st April, 2016 The Chairman
National Assembly Service Commission
TOS Benson Street, Utako,
Abuja Withdrawal of Letter of Appointment of Acting Clerk of National Assembly We present to you the compliments of the President of the Senate and Chairman of the National Assembly, Dr. Abubakar Bukola Saraki, CON. Please recall that during your last meeting with the Senate President on April 20, 2016, the procedure of the appointment of the Acting Clerk of the National Assembly was discussed. The Commission was directed to follow due process and ensure that seniority is adhered to. Of course, Mr Benedict Efeturi who is Deputy Clerk of the National Assembly (DCNA) and who has previously acted as the Clerk of the National Assembly should be the first to be considered. The President of the Senate and the Speaker of the House of Representatives were informed that Mr. Efeturi was not considered for the appointment because he was not duly appointed as Deputy Clerk of the National Assembly. On further enquiry, we found he was duly appointed by the National Assembly Service Commission vide Extract from Minutes of its 403rd Meeting held on Friday, 21st November, 2014. From the foregoing, you have misled and misinformed the President of the Senate and Speaker of the House of Representatives. Consequently, I am directed by His Excellency, the Senate President, to inform you that the letter appointing Mr Sani Omolori as Acting Clerk of the National Assembly, be withdrawn immediately for further consultations. Please accept the assurances of my warmest regards. Sen. Isa Galaudu Chief of Staff to the Senate President