Kogi State Governor, Alhaji Yahaya Bello, has said it is his constitutional right to appoint his personal aides without any recourse to any group of people, provided the individuals meet up the requirement as stipulated by the law. He spoke at the weekend through his Special Adviser on Media. Mallam Abdulkarim Abdulmalik, in reaction to the letter purportedly written by the State Executive of the All Progressives Congress to the national leadership of the party. Bello said he was yet to be informed by the National Secretariat of the ‎APC about the petition, adding that he is running an all-inclusive government and the APC leadership are free to recommend anybody for any appointment provided the person meets certain criteria for such positions. Bello stated that his government was working towards unity and as such, his doors were always opened to accommodate everybody irrespective of religion, ethnic and political differences. He accused the State Chairman of the APC, Alhaji Haddi Ametuo, of hiding under the party to play games against his government because his favoured choice, Hon. Jimoh Lawal, was removed as Speaker of the House of Assembly by the lawmakers. Bello said his administration has demonstrated commitment towards rebuilding the state and uniting the people for peaceful co-existence through people-oriented policies and programme. This, according to him, attested to the warm reception accorded him at Okene when he was recently received by a large crowd that thronged the city square to rejoice with him over his victory at the poll. “I will not behave like the past leaders, who now regret not doing the right thing while in office due to selfish pressure mounted on them by some people. Anybody with impeccable credentials and feels that he has something to offer the state can come forward,” Bello added. Bello further explained that his government will continue to accord respect to every citizen of the state, adding that the day of ethnicity and inter-tribal crisis are over.