The Ondo State Governor, Olusegun Mimiko on Monday said the federal government must act now to stop the incessant killings of people, particularly farmers, by Fulani herdsmen. The governor added that if the government failed to act, the country may be heading towards a precipice. Mimiko stated this while meeting with members of Oodua Peoples Congress (OPC) over the death of one of their colleagues, who was allegedly killed by herdsmen at the farm belonging to the former Secretary to the Government of the Federation, Chief Olu Falae at Ilado community in Akure North local government area of the state. The deceased, Ayodele Ige, was the coordinator of the group in Akure North local government. Mimiko also noted that if urgent actions were not taken, people may resort to self help. While appealing to the OPC not to take law into their hands, he urged the government to collaborate with northern states governors to set up big ranches with dams, including schools for the herdmen. Mimiko assured the OPC members that those behind the killing of their member will soon be brought to book by the law enforcement agencies. The governor who picked holes in the proposed Fulani grazing reserves bill by National Assembly, said it would further aggravate the crisis between the farmers and the herdsmen. His words,”these herdsmen must be called to order, these wanton destructions, audacious incursions into other people’s territory cannot continue for too long. “I am again appealing to Mr President and all the major stakeholders in government in Nigeria that we should put heads together and sort out this. “For me, I see the grazing reserves as aggravating the problem; though I’ve not read the law, I don’t see how that law can find comfort with the land user’s act; the control of land is vested in the governor of the state; I can’t see any federal law that will compulsorily acquire any land from any state government; in my state for example, it cannot work. “The owners of these cattles, according to the information in my disposal are well to do people, they are elites and if cattle rearing is commercial venture, why should they not contribute in collaboration with state government or Private Public Partnership or whatsoever to set up ranches, so that if you want to graze on such ranches, you pay a fee, after all, they don’t sell these cattle for free. “We have been talking about diversification and agriculture is the main focus, but in my state there is hardly any medium scale or large scale farmers that has not had any encounter or the other with the herdsmen. “They just go to the farm and devastated it, some of the owners have been turned to perpetual debtors because some of them borrowed from bank , the herdsmen will just get there and destroy these farmlands and we are talking of diversification. “I think if we don’t do anything about the activities of these herdsmen, I can see a threat to the security of this country so it’s a major challenge and I think the President and all major stakeholders should take this as a very serious challenge.”