Lagos State Governor Akinwunmi Ambode has pledged to complete the $1.7 billion Lekki Seaport in 2019, saying upon completion, it would be the deepest seaport in sub-Saharan Africa. The governor, who reeled out the numerous investment opportunities that abound in the state to prospective investors in critical sectors such as power, agriculture, transportation, health, tourism, housing, ICT and manufacturing, gave assurance that the state was poised for more investments. Speaking at the formal unveiling of the Office of Overseas Affairs and Investment, otherwise known as Lagos Global, the governor said his administration, in anticipation of increased socio-economic activities, had resolved to prioritise the achievement of the four pillars of the Lagos State Development Plan (2012-2015), including economic, infrastructural, social development as well as security and sustainable environment. Governor Ambode added that the Badagry Creek Industrial Park, a $1.3 billion investment meant for completion in 2018 and the $12 billion Dangote Refinery and Petrochemical Park were among other investments coming to the state. Represented by the Secretary to the State Government, Tunji Bello, the governor said ongoing efforts had ensured that the state remained a choice destination for massive Foreign Direct Investments (FDIs), including the Lekki seaport project. Also speaking, renowned economist, Prof. Pat Utomi, while lauding the initiative, said Lagos economy must therefore be a 24 hours one and that the growth of the state required significant co-operation from neighbouring states. Utomi said Lagos offers hope for rapid growth of the country as it has the capacity to serve as the yard-stick to measure and encourage development, but that there has to be a concerted effort to make the state a more attractive idea of a developmental state, and that there must be a well done plan to round up everything that Lagos represents in terms of possibilities through a branding process. In another development, poised to improve smooth driving on the ever-busy Lagos-Badagry Expressway, Governor Ambode has ordered the State Public Works Corporation (LSPWC) to immediately embark on extensive repairs of the road. General Manager and Special Adviser to the Governor on Public Works, Ayotunde Sodeinde, who disclosed this in a chat with newsmen yesterday, said LSPWC had already mobilised its workers to commence work immediately on several sections of the road. “Immediately His Excellency, Governor Ambode, gave us the directive, we have moved into the area to commence extensive work on the roads. We have been here since Tuesday and work has commenced in earnest,” he said. He said the repair works would include covering all potholes on the road while the drainage systems will also be given a face-lift. By the Guardians..