Akpotaire who revealed this in Abuja noted that the data on these enterprises had not been sufficient, hence the need for the review. He said it was in the realization of the objective that his administration had decided to partner with anti-graft and security agencies in the country to carry out thorough and due diligence on prospective investors willing to buy government assets. The BPE Acting boss regretted that despite the huge success the Bureau had recorded in the reform and privatization programme of the Federal Government, only the failed exercises were usually highlighted. He listed the reforms in the banking, telecoms, pension, petroleum services & cement companies and hotel industries as some of the reforms carried out by the Bureau which have impacted positively on the Nigerian economy but “which most Nigerians don’t give the Bureau the credit. On the agricultural sector, Akpotaire said the pending reforms would create jobs for the teeming rural youth and rejuvenate the over 380,000 hectares of land for irrigation around Dams which the Federal Government had invested in but which were substantially lying fallow. He said that the Federal Government was planning to reform the seven National Parks to become foreign exchange earner for the government in view of the dwindling revenue from oil. According to him, the Abuja Commodity Exchange would commence operations in the next nine months as soon as the Federal Government gives its nod to its privatization. He added that the World Bank is funding the Advisory Services for the effort. On housing, the BPE boss said the sector needs a regulator to check activities of the operators and that talks were in top gear with the Federal Ministry of Power, Works and Housing for the realization of the objective. The essence is to create a housing sector where social housing will be delivered to the teeming Nigerians through a partnership involving the Federal Government, State Governments and the private sector. Vanguard Newspaper