Aisha Yesufu, co-convener of the Bring Back Our Girls, BBOG, a leading group pushing the Nigerian government to rescue the Chibok school girls kidnapped on April 2014, has accused President Muhammadu Buhari of not taking their plight seriously. Yesufu in a series of tweet on Wednesday reminded Buhari of his promise to the group when he received BBOG in January. “3 months later, the Commission on Inquiry you directed to be set up has still not been set up. “Remembering promises made is part of integrity. Commission on inquiry of #ChibokGirls abduction yet to be set up. “I don’t have or I don’t know is never an answer to anything. What is being done to know or to have? “How can I demand from Minister of WA (whereabouts of) the #ChibokGirls Desk when you haven’t set up Commission of Inquiry as promised?” DAILY POST recalls that Aisha Yesufu, in January expressed disappointment at the treatment BBOG received from Buhari when he hosted them in Aso Rock. “The president said he had no credible intelligence on the missing Chibok girls. He said he is somebody who does not lie. And he will not start by lying,” Yesufu told journalists. “We are not saying the president should lie, but when you are saying there is no credible intelligence, and that the girls are scattered and married off; then how do we know? These are two things. “And he said it (abduction of the Chibok girls) happened during the last administration. I find it very worrisome. I remember one of the parents asked what he meant by saying it happened in the last administration. Does it mean the girls will not be rescued? “I would like the president to know that there is no vacuum in government. That it happened during the last administration is not an excuse. “It is duty of the Nigerian government to ensure that the Chibok girls are rescued. It is their right and not a privilege. And where we have failed there is a need for us to apologise. “As for me, I was terribly sad and shocked because the president did not look at the parents to say ‘we are sorry as a nation for your children who have been abducted for 21 months. “The president finished his speech, he dropped the microphone and walked out. And I thought that could have been a moment for him to connect with the parents. “We will continue our campaign. We do not care who the head of the government is. It is duty of the Nigerian government to rescue the Chibok and we will continue making our demands.” However, Yesufu disclosed that BBOG will Thursday address a World Press Conference at the Unity Fountain Abuja by 9am. The group said it will also march to Aso Rock Villa, “the seat of government, to remind the occupants that the primary responsibility of the government is the protection of lives and properties.”