Exactly two years after over 200 girls were kidnapped in their school in Chibok, Borno State, President Muhammadu Buhari on Thursday appealed to the distraught parents of the girls to be patient with him. He urged them to show understanding as his administration continues to work round the clock to ensure the release of the abducted girls. Buhari’s position was contained in a statement issued by his Senior Special Assistant on Media and Publicity, Garba Shehu. The statement was issued on a day security operatives blocked activists calling for the rescue of the girls from accessing the Presidential Villa, Abuja. “President Buhari urges the (Chibok girls’) parents to continue to exercise patience and understanding as the government works diligently to ensure that the girls return home unharmed. “The President thanked all Nigerians, religious and civil organisations, and the international community for their continued sympathy, support and prayers for the return of the Chibok girls,” the statement read in part. Buhari was further quoted to have assured the parents and relations of the kidnapped Chibok girls that he frequently reflects on the ordeal of the captives in the hands of Boko Haram terrorists and shares the pain of their continued absence from home. He reaffirmed that, as a parent and leader of the country, he understands the torment, frustration and anxiety of the parents and will not spare any effort to ensure the safe return of the girls. The statement added, “The President continues to believe that with the total commitment of the Federal Government, Nigerian Armed Forces and security agencies, and the support of the international community, the girls will be eventually rescued. “President Buhari notes that thousands of persons, mostly women and children, who were kidnapped by Boko Haram, have already been rescued and reunited with their families. He shares the hope of the parents that the Chibok girls will ultimately be rescued and reunited with their families as well. “The President assures the parents that the Federal Government and security agencies will continue to explore all possible options for the safe return of the girls.”