The Federal Government, in partnership with the United Nations-Habitat, has completed the 2016 hands-on training in energy efficiency and renewable energy technologies for selected youths drawn from across the country. The Federal Government said 135 persons from various states in the six geopolitical zones were trained and mandated to also train other youths in their region in green entrepreneurship and enterprise development. To show what they had learnt, the trainees carried out practical demonstrations in front of invited guests at the closing ceremony of the event in Abuja by producing renewable energy lamps and energy- efficient cooking stoves. The Senior Special Assistant to the President on Sustainable Development Goals, Mrs. Adejoke Adefulire, said the programme was developed by the Presidency in partnership with the UN-Habitat to empower youths through the provision of training in energy efficiency and renewable technologies. She said, “The main objective of this programme is to involve Nigerian youths in the green economy project, contributing to climate change mitigation, because majority of our youths do not have stable economic opportunities, as they are unemployed, discouraged or vulnerably employed. Adefulire observed that the training was not to replace the university or college degrees of the trainees but would enhance their capacities. “By your decision to be part of this exercise, you will move away from poverty, crime, drug abuse, militancy and terrorism to a sustainable platform, as this programme will address goal one of the SDG, which is no poverty, goal seven on renewable energy, and goal 11 on sustainable cities and communities,” she said. The Programme Manager, UN-Habitat, Nigeria, Mr. Yari Mohammed, said subsequent training would capture a greater number of trainees, adding that the exercise would go a long way in reducing unemployment in Nigeria. He said, “Our collaboration with Nigeria on this project is to provide technical inputs in terms of facilitators, technical personnel and other related things that will ensure a successful training. As you know, the SDGs is a 2030 agenda which intends to improve the lives of all citizens and leaving no one behind.” Source: http://punchng.com/fg-un-train-youths-renewable-energy-projects/