Not just a few wondered why Headies, one of the major music awards in Nigeria, would hold on a Thursday given the fact that the following day was not a work free day. But then, did it stop celebrities and other personalities from coming for the event? No way! However, the usual excitement, glamour and fun that have come to be identified with the award were lacking as most people felt 2016 Headies wasn’t very fantastic. Saturday Beats was on the ground to bring tit bits from the ceremony. Late start… as usual Anybody who thought the organisers of the award would for once, stick to time or even close to it, would rather think again. And for the 11th consecutive year since the award was conceived, it started so many hours behind schedule. The lateness could have been tolerated if the following day was a work free day; Saturday Beats overheard so many celebs grumbling and wishing the event would just start. Another chance for Remedies, Daddy Showkey, Ras Kimono There was a time The Remedies, Daddy Showkey and Ras Kimono shone like stars – that was  many years ago. But thank God for Headies 2016. These veterans were given opportunity to perform on stage and boy, they were super excited. It was so obvious that Remedies, in particular, had looked forward to this that they even performed about five of their songs. The group went on and on to thank the organisers profusely for this golden opportunity to show the world that they are still hot. But Daddy Showkey didn’t need to try so hard to show that he is loved. As soon as he came on the stage, the crowd went wild and he didn’t lower their expectations with his performance. From the mention of his name, the crowd went gaga. Rub-a- dub master, Ras Kimono, was also great on the stage and his performance was good. Winners nowhere to be seen This could have really unnerved the organisers as most of the winners were nowhere to be seen. From Simi, Kiss Daniel, Illbliss to Patoranking and Olamide, these artistes who won in different categories just weren’t around to pick up their plaques. However, fears were allayed when some of these artistes showed up later in the night. Simi was seen on stage to support Falz when he was given an award for Best Collabo with his song Soldier, which features Simi. Kiss Daniel on the other was also present to pick his other two awards. Falz shuns fans’ request to pick Simi’s award And since they have become an item in recent times, so many people felt Falz would have been the natural person to pick up Simi’s award when she wasn’t around to pick it up. Even fans were shouting that Falz should collect the award on her behalf but the comedian-cum-singer shunned everybody and pretended as if he didn’t hear the screams. Eventually, it was Lara George that came on stage and collected the award on behalf of Simi when it was obvious that Falz wasn’t going to do so. YBNL and Mavin go MIA The absence of Olamide’s YBNL and Don Jazzy’s Mavin crew was very noticeable especially because Olamide’s outfit won two awards. This got the audience talking and many people were of the opinion that they boycotted the award ceremony because of the controversy they had during the last Headies last year. However, Saturday Beats learnt that both parties were absent because of other engagements that were paid for. A mock truce for Kcee and Harrysong Some people may have expected Harrysong and Kcee to throw daggers at each other but the duo surprised not just a few when Kcee joined Harrysong on stage to pick up his award, which he won with his song, ‘Reggae Blues.’ But then really, Kcee may not have come on stage until Uti, the presenter of the award asked him if he would not join Harrysong on stage. The Limpopo crooner reluctantly walked on stage and Harrysong asked him to give a speech instead. After thanking the organisers of the show, Kcee finished his speech saying, “una know say me and Harrysong dey quarrel but na public we dey. When we settle am for private we go let una know.” Wizkid snubs Eva Alordiah’s fiancee The presence of Star Boy, Wizkid, at this year’s Headies was a delightful one and at the sight of him, the hall went crazy with chants of his name. While walking to his seat, the singer had to greet people he was familiar with and as he approached Eva Alordiah’s seat, her fiancé, Caeser, who may be feeling like a celebrity since he is getting married to one, got up with his arms wide open to hug Wiz. Wiz subtly ignored the guy and his open arms but went on ahead to greet Eva. Source: http://punchng.com/side-headies-2016/