he wrong choice of words in a customer conversation can be very damaging to a brand. It may seem like a no-brainer, however, this slip occurs frequently. A recent event played out in a supermarket I visited. The organisation had just acquired and moved to a new multipurpose edifice with much pomp and pageantry. They were stocked with more spacious parking and a better shopping experience. The launch was a big bang and naturally people gravitated towards the new outlet to see the new things on offer. During my visit, an episode played out. An angry customer walked in and was hysterical about an expired fizzy drink that she had bought, to further worsen the situation, her toddler had taken three of the drinks from the pack before she discovered. As she was venting, one of the workers responded and told her to “take it easy”! Of course, this retort just exacerbated the whole situation; the lady’s voice became louder and attracted the attention of other shoppers. As people intuitively started looking into their shopping carts and rechecking labels, some waded into the matter while others glanced at each other and started passing comments. This type of lapse further exacerbated by a bad attitude will naturally create bad publicity for the supermarket and their product lines, as the business is largely done person-to-person. This is however not just a supermarket storyline. It is a well-worn narrative that has ensnared many organisations. Lots of money are expended on infrastructure and attracting customers, however leaving out training the workers on how to properly interact with the customers. Amy Gallo in her article, ‘The Value of Keeping the Right Customers’ wrote, “it can cost anywhere from five to 25 times the cost of acquiring a new customer when compared to keeping an existing customer satisfied.” In another article entitled, ‘The Value of Customer Experience, Quantified,’ Peter Kriss goes on to say that “customers who had the best past experiences spend 140 per cent more compared to those who had the poorest experiences.” According to John Picoult, “marketing instruments may help pique people’s interest in what you have to offer, but it’s the actual interactions they have with your company—the customer experience itself—that will ultimately drive long-term engagement…..in reality what often happens is that the marketing of a company’s brand promise gets far more attention than the fulfilment of that brand promise. And it’s that disconnect for customers that will undermine even the most carefully orchestrated branding campaigns.” In the field of customer experience perception is reality, some useful takeaways from the incidence are: Isolate irate customers It is unwise to deal or attend to angry and emotionally-distraught customers in the full glare of the public or in open places; damage control mode has to be activated. It is more tactful to relocate such customers to a quiet place to calm them down and placate them, so they do not cause a scene or amplify their emotions in the full glare of the public. Apologise A simple and sincere apology will also help to placate the customer further. Apologising for what is the organisation’s fault, clearly and sincerely, will reduce the customers’ anger. No mortal is immune to mistakes and customers understand that things can go wrong. If the apology is sincere and the manner of approach is respectful and not defensive, it will be easier for the customers to forgive. A proper explanation needs to be given as to what happened and why it happened. Depending on the situation, a timeline should also be given as to when the issue will be resolved. As regards the expired drink, an immediate action should be taken to check all inventories. Ensure that all goods are in proper condition and renegotiate with suppliers or manufacturers. Assure It is also important to assure the customers that such issue will not arise again and that measures have been put in place to ensure that it does not occur. Carrying them along like this demonstrates to them that you are serious about resolving the problem and preventing it from reoccurring. Focus on emotional training The business world is dynamic and so are interactions with customers. Not all customer interactions or deviations can be comprehensively covered in standard operating procedure. However, training the employees in emotional intelligence will equip them with the right skills to navigate any unforeseen circumstances. According to a Bain study entitled, ‘The what, who and how of delivering results’, “Good intent, embodied in a new strategy or the design of a new operating model, will take you only so far. To realise the full benefit, mindsets and behaviours—how people think and act every day—need to change. Buying the gym set doesn’t make you fit; the habit of exercise does.” Organisations need to understand the importance of getting the end-to-end customer journey right and factor in all elements of the customer experience to get the best returns on investment. Follow me on twitter:@oluwafemioyefes Source: http://punchng.com/communication-customer-experience/