A new video of the factional leader of the Boko Haram terror group, Abubakar Shekau, surfaced online on Thursday, where the fleeing militant leader urged President Muhammadu Buhari to repent while mocking the Nigerian military for claims that it had defeated the terror sect. In the 25-minute video, released by the Paris-based AFP, Shekau, who spoke in Hausa and Arabic, debunked claims of victory by the military. The video, which Shekau claimed was made on Christmas Day, had the sect leader and some of his armed-hooded lieutenants with military hardware in the background. He said the announcement by the military that it had won the war was an excuse for their exhaustion. Shekau said, “My message is to you Buhari. Your age is up to 72 years, fear Allah. Allah’s Prophet Muhammad (PBUH), while in Medina, wrote letters to leaders. “There was one who repented and became a Muslim; Buhari, repent. In this old age, you have been tied; if you don’t repent, you will see. Wallahi (By Allah), if you don’t repent, you will see. “As for you, (Gen.) Kukah Sheka, you are a liar, looking for money under infidels; infidels like you saying you have defeated us. “Has anyone defeated someone pursuing a religious cause? Our fear is the fear of leaving our ideology, not the fear of anything else. “You must understand this and stop lying to people. If you have finished us like you said, will you see me like this? You have killed us in your usual bogus way; like someone asked ‘does Shekau have nine lives?’ I have only one life wallahi (by Allah); it is just that my time on earth has not ended.” While mentioning the Chief of Army Staff by name, Shekau said, “Nothing has happened to us. We are fine, we have not been driven anywhere. Tactics and strategy will not allow us reveal our location unless Allah wills it. Tactics will not allow us, you rely on Europeans as advisers: Germany, America, Italy, Israel, Russia; you boast in them? We boast with Allah.” He added, “Your soldiers want to rest that’s why they have said they have finished the job. In the near future, we will start (sarcastic laughter); when we start, you will know. “If you try us, you will see whether or not we are working because the job is for the one who owns the heavens and you are under the heavens. “First of all, here I am. You want to spend the money given to you by the Germans, now you have not succeeded. “Playing football and following the constitution, democracy, drumming, singing, dancing, destruction and you think this is how you are going to succeed against us?” “Remember the past, look at today, tomorrow is not yours, yesterday will tell you about today.” He expressed displeasure that a respected Kano State Muslim cleric, popularly known as Kalarawi, attended a peace meeting with Christians on Christmas Day. Shekau accused the cleric of embracing the “white man’s religion.” In remarks targeted at fellow extremists, he said, “We are the Jama’atu Ahlis Sunna Lidda’awati wal-Jihad, (Arabic: People committed to the propagation of the Prophet’s teachings and Jihad).  We are on a Jihad and our aim is to establish an Islamic Caliphate. “We have our caliphate; we are not part of Nigeria. We are here, our brothers, kill infidels, fight wars, detonate bombs, slaughter; that is how our forbearers – not blood relations, but our religious brothers – that is how they did it. “This is what I have to say to you, the work is not yet done, there is still work to be done. Before we were born, he knew we will come to do this; we will not leave our religion.” On claims by the military that it had captured hundreds of the insurgents in Sambisa Forest, Shekau said, “You have not infiltrated us, and it’s a lie that you captured 1,000 of us, that 38 of us surrendered to you; it’s a lie. Prophet Isah (Jesus) is not yours (Christians); you have no affiliation with our mother, Miriam (Mary). “You (military) said last Friday, you defeated us, for you to enjoy your Christmas? You will not enjoy it. It is me, Abubakar Muhammad Al-Shekawi.” New video undergoing analysis – Army Meanwhile, the Nigerian Army said the new Boko Haram video was undergoing a forensic analysis, adding that the troops were still making concerted effort to clear the hiding places of the terrorists. The Acting Director, Army Public Relations, Brig. Gen. Sani Usman, who stated this in a statement on Thursday, said the video clip was a mere terrorists’ propaganda, adding that there was no cause for alarm. He said, “While effort is ongoing to subject the video to further forensic analysis, the Nigerian Army wishes to reiterate that it has captured and occupied the last known stronghold of the terrorist group in the Sambisa Forest. “We reassure the public that this video is nothing but a mere terrorists’ propaganda, aimed at creating fear in the mind of people and to remain relevant. Therefore, there is no cause for alarm, more so as concerted effort in clearing the vestiges of Boko Haram terrorists, wherever they might be hiding, is still ongoing. “Troops deployed in various parts of the North-East have continued to intensify search for all persons associated with Boko Haram terrorist group with a view to bringing them to justice. “Consequently, the public is hereby enjoined to go about their normal lawful business, remain vigilant and security conscious. They should also report any suspicious person or group of persons to security agencies.”