The Federal Government was yet to constitute a committee on the anticipated new national minimum wage, Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC) said on Monday. The NLC President, Mr Ayuba Wabba, said in a statement in Abuja that a report that the committee had started meeting was false.
He described the report as not only false and misleading but also mischievous.
“To the best of our knowledge, government is yet to constitute the committee on the new national minimum wage.
“How could a non-existent committee have met?
“In the light of the sensitive nature of the subject matter, this story is not only alarmist; it constitutes an unnecessary overheating of the polity.
“To the best of our knowledge, government accepted to set up two committees as a result of the major protest by labour, following the increase in the pump price of petroleum products.”
He named the two committees as the Palliatives and the National Minimum Wage Committees.
Wabba said the committees were to make recommendations to government on how to cushion the harsh effects brought on the populace by the increase in the pump price of fuel.
He said the committees would also address other issues relating to the working of institutions in the downstream sector, especially the Petroleum Products Pricing Regulatory Agency.
The labour leader noted that the committees would be expected to make recommendations on other challenges militating against regular supply of petroleum products.
He said that government’s acceptance to set up the committees was part of the process of addressing the concerns of labour.
“On June 2, the committee on palliatives was inaugurated by the secretary to the government of the federation.
“An inaugural meeting chaired by the Minister of Labour and Employmen, Dr Chris Ngige, was held immediately during which it was agreed that a tripartite committee should be set up.
“The committee comprises representatives of government, employers and labour on a new national minimum wage in line with extant law and procedure.”
“We have gone to this length to show how sensitive this subject matter is and why no one should test waters with speculations or outright lies,” he added