 The capacity of the Warri and the Kaduna refineries to boost local needs may have been compromised, as the Niger Delta Avengers (NDA) Monday night, blew up the NNPC major trunks, supplying them. The NDA indicated this in a statement placed on its site by it’s spokesman, Mudoch Agbinibo: “At 10pm, Niger Delta Avengers blew up Chevron Well 10, close to Otunana flow station”. The locals in the community, and a police officer in the area confirmed it. “The boys says it is their Ramadan gift to the Government ” a local highlighted, on condition of anonymity, adding that they actually bided their time, patiently waited for low tide when gun boats cannot enter the swamps, especially the areas where the trunk lines were situated, before conveniently, going to work. It was learnt that, the pipelines attacked around 9.47 pm, consisted of two manifolds operated by the Nigerian Petroleum Development Company at Batan community in the Warri South-West Local Government Area of Delta State; and two NNPC trunk lines,  after which they swooped on  a Chevron oil well,  at Makaraba village, also within the Gbaramatu Kingdom. “These boys are not just destroying national facilities, they are gradually castrating the macro economy”, observed an oil worker, noting that the current gesture could truncate supplies to Forcados Terminal in the Burutu Local Government Area, as well as the Shell’s Forcados loading stations. In the meantime, United States on Tuesday warned of possible attacks against expatriates and foreign visitors in Nigeria’s biggest city, Lagos, during public holidays marking the end of the Muslim holy month of Ramadan. “The US Mission in Nigeria advises that groups associated with terrorist activity might be planning attacks against hotels in Lagos frequented by international visitors, including those located on waterfronts, during the Eid-al-Fitr holidays,” it said. Wednesday and Thursday are public holidays in Nigeria and the traditional end of a month of fasting and prayer is marked by celebrations across the country. The US warning, posted on its embassy’s website, is unusually specific but not the first about possible attacks in locations frequented by expatriates. A similar security warning was given in December last year, while in May 2014 diplomats warned of a possible attack at two Sheraton hotels in Lagos, after a car bombing in the capital, Abuja, killed 19 just days before a major economic summit. Similar warnings were given in April 2012 and November 2011 about hotels popular with Westerners in Abuja. Lagos, a melting pot megacity of some 20 million people, has been spared the worst excesses of violence by the Islamist group Boko Haram, whose seven-year insurgency has destroyed Nigeria’s northeast. But the southwestern coastal city has been hit before. On June 25, 2014, explosions ripped through the port area near a major fuel depot. The authorities blamed the blast on a cooking gas cylinder which exploded but eyewitnesses and Western diplomats said it was a car bomb that killed at least four people. Boko Haram’s shadowy leader Abubakar Shekau later claimed responsibility. The US Embassy’s latest warning did not mention a specific group but urged its citizens to “review your personal security plans, remain aware of your surroundings, including local events, and monitor local news stations for updates.” Credits Maritime first