A delegation from the Abia State chapter of the PDP from the 17 local governments yesterday paid the embattled ex-chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, Senator Ali Modu Sheriff, a solidarity visit in Abuja.  Speaking during the visit, Senator Ali Modu Sheriff, said he could only let go of his claim to the chairmanship of the party if he was allowed to nominate 10 members to join the other 10 that would be nominated by Senator Ahmed Makarfi to organise a fresh convention for the party. Senator Sheriff said he was ready to let go of his claim to the chairmanship of the party only if the conditions that he gave are met. However, Senator Buruji Kashamu, one of his former supporters have appealed to him to sheathe his sword in the interest of the party and its supporters nationwide. Sheriff also emphasised that the proposed convention of the party must be held in Abuja with him and the national caretaker committee, headed by Senator Makarfi, nominating 10 members each to conduct the convention. He said his conditions for a unified party would be based on the agreement reached at the reconciliation meeting held at Taraba State Government House, under the chairmanship of Bayelsa State governor, Seriake Dickson, deputised by Senator Ibrahim Mantu while warning that unless his conditions are met, he remains national chairman of the party till 2018. Senator Sheriff stressed that the impunity which prevailed in the party in the past and led it to the present sorry state must be stopped. He said: “Proposals were put forward in Taraba and discussions cannot go forward until you handle it from the foundation. In Taraba, all issues put forward were for Makarfi Caretaker Committee to be dissolved. “Makarfi Committee should resign, it does not exist in the PDP constitution. What exists is the national chairman which I am. I remain the chairman until 2018. “Some people want to make PDP their personal property. That will not happen; if you don’t stand on the truth, the end result will be destruction.”