Governor Adams Oshiomhole of Edo state and his deputy, Dr. Pius Odubu on Tuesday sank their political differences and reconciled ahead of the September 10, INEC-scheduled governorship election. During the build up to the APC governorship primaries which threw up Godwin Obaseki as candidate, both had a strained relationship because of their individual political interests. Against this backdrop, political analysts proclaimed doom for the APC should the two remain political enemies before the September election. But at a reconciliation meeting held at the Government House, Benin City on Tuesday, the governor and his deputy hugged each other, saying the fight is over. Speaking at the event, Oshiomhole said:
“The deputy governor and I have worked together for seven and half years and we have struggled together as candidate running mate since 2007. Since then, we have worked together, dined together, socialize together. Some time its being in the news that the Deputy governor and I who I believe watchers of Nigeria politics will agree that Pius and I have had an extremely cordial relationship and I have had without any prompting that in my working with Pius I found him to be absolutely loyal, dedicated and committed. ” Nobody was able to infiltrate us and nobody ever came to settle a quarrel between the deputy governor and I in the past seven and half years. Sometimes when we joke we don’t relate as boss and subordinate but as brothers as we have been. “But we went through an electoral primary to celebrate internal democracy that distinguished the APC from the rest. Pius and I fought many battles, both political battles as well as battles to reposition this government and together we can effortlessly point out what our stewardship accomplished for the benefit of the people of Edo state. Which I believe necessarily formed the foundation for the electioneering campaign that is about to begin. Having worked so hard and related so closely, there is no question Pius and I in and outside government will remain friends and comrades”.