The Police Service Commission (PSC) wednesday approved the promotion of 22 Commissioners of Police (CPs) to the next rank of Assistant Inspectors General of Police (AIGs).  The commission also endorsed the promotion of 29 Deputy Commissioners of Police (DCPs) to the rank of CPs. A statement signed by the commission’s Head of Public Relations, Mr. Ikechukwu Ani, said the promoted senior officers were subjected to rigorous screening in Abuja. The statement added: “The screening panel was headed by the chairman of the commission, Mr. Mike Mbama Okiro, a retired Inspector General of Police, and other members of the commission. “The promotions were based on the recommendation of availability of vacancies in the AIG and CP cadres of the force and the need to fill the anticipated vacuums occasioned by the recent reorganisation.” Okiro said the elevation of the officers was also based on the need to put structures in place in the various zonal commands, adding that the issue of seniority and diligence to duty of the officers was a fundamental criteria in the exercise. “Majority of the new AIGs had already been posted to zonal commands and other police formations while nine of the CPs had been posted as command CPs,” he said. Also, the acting Inspector General of Police (IG), Mr. Ibrahim Idris, appointed CSP Jimoh Olohundare Moshood as the Deputy Force Public Relations Officer. A statement signed by the Force Public Relations Officer, DCP Donald Awunah, said Moshood takes over from CSP Sogbeba West who has since been posted to Rivers State command. Moshood, who hails from Ilorin South, Kwara State, holds a B.Sc in Political Science from Ahmadu Bello University, Zaria, Kaduna State. He was once a Police Public Relations Officer in the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), Abuja command.”
According to the statement, the officer has also served in various capacities in the Nigeria Police Force as DPO Central Area, Abuja, until his recent appointment as Chief Superintendent of Police in charge of Department of Finance and Administration, FCT Abuja. He assumed duty as the Deputy Force Public Relations Officer for the Nigeria Police immediately.