Stakeholders in the agricultural sector have commended the federal government for instituting the National Egg Production (NEGPRO) scheme aimed at helping the country to achieve self sufficiency in local egg production in order to stop importation.  The NEGPRO scheme is an initiative of the Federal Ministry of Agriculture aimed at increasing the output of egg production in the country to 50 million table eggs daily by 2018. It further aims at creating about 1 million jobs at full capacity, empowering as many farmers as possible, increasing contribution of poultry sector to GDP of Nigeria as well as increasing internally generated revenues to the federal government. However, stakeholdershave applauded the government for appointing an indigenous firm-Tuns Farms Nigeria Limited as consultant and manager of the scheme. Executive Director, Chi Farms, a leading producer of day old chicks in Nigeria, Mr. Martin Middernacht, expressed support for the federal government for introducing the scheme, adding that NEGPRO is an important initiative that will improve food security and economic diversification. While further commending the appointment of Tuns Farms as consultant, he said as a stakeholder, his company would support the successful implementation of the initiative. In the same vein, former Zonal Vice President, Poultry Association of Nigeria, Mr. Clement Okonjo said the successful implementation of the NEGPRO scheme would boost the economy and build up the poultry sector. In a letter of commendation to Tuns Farm, he said:”We commend the Federal Government of Nigeria for this laudable project which we believe, will change the face of the poultry industry in Nigeria. “We also congratulate you on the enormous strides you have been making in the effort to build the poultry industry in Nigeria. We have followed your success story with the Osun State Programme for Children Feeding which have enabled you reach an agreement with the Federal Government for same purpose.” The Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development, Mr. Audu Ogbeh and the Chairman of Tuns Farms Limited Asiwaju Olatunde Badmus had recently signed a N25 billion agreement on NEGPRO scheme to be financed by the Bank of Industry (BOI). As part of its role as manager of the scheme, Tuns farms Limited will recommend eligible entrepreneurs to access the N25billion facility through the Bank of Industry (BOI). The company will also develop customized and standard feed concentrate for the scheme to ensure uniformity.