The Ekiti state chapter of the All Progressives Congress and the
Conference of Nigerian Political Parties (CNPP) and other anti-Fayose
groups yesterday trooped to the streets of Ado-Ekiti in protest
against alleged looting of the state’s commonwealth by Governor
Ayodele Fayose.  The Coalition commended the action of the Economic and Financial
Crimes(EFCC) for freezing accounts belonging and operated by Fayose which allegedly contain N1.2 billion slush fund
from the office of the National Security Adviser(NSA), Col. Sambo Dasuki to fund the governor’s campaign in 2014. Large retinue of policemen and men of the Department of State Security
were deployed to provide cover for the mammoth crowd that attended the
rally. The placard-carrying protesters which comprise party leaders,
students, youth groups, artisans and other like-minded individuals ,
marched from Fajuyi park through Okeyinmi and stopped at Ijigbo area
where they were addressed by leaders of each group. In what seems like a general consensus, the protesters passed
a confidence vote in the leadership of President Muhammadu Buhari and
his anti-corruption war, challenging the EFCC to dig deep into the
finances of the State and prosecute whoever was indicted in the
looting of the state’s treasury. They chanted anti-Fayose’s songs to deride the way the governor had
allegedly be looting the state, especially his alleged indictment in
the N1.2 billion arms fund, alleged collection of kickbacks from
contractors handling various projects in the state to buy
multi-billion naira property in Lagos , among others. The APC Acting Chairman in the state, Mrs Kemi Olaleye, expressed
regret about how the immunity conferred on Governor Fayose in line
with section 308 of the constitution, had been impeding his
prosecution for alleged embezzlement of funds. “We are tired of immunity clause. Immunity has become impunity in
Ekiti. We condemn Governor Fayose’s corrupt tendencies .Things must
change. The EFCC must do its job and ensure that looters of Ekiti are
brought to justice,”she said. A statement presented by the CNPP Chairman in the state, Mr Tunji Ogunlola ,
challenged Fayose to waive his immunity and face prosecution over
alleged involvement in N4.7 billion arms deal alongside former
Minister of State for Defence , Musiliu Obanikoro and PDP Governorship
candidate in Osun State in the last poll, Mr Iyiola Omisore. “On the issue of the Ekiti State House of Assembly, we ask the 17
members alleged to have falsified their certificates to submit
themselves for prosecution. It is very unfortunate that their primary
roles have been abandoned for Fayose’s defence. “We also plead with the federal government not to release bailout for
payment of salary to Governor Fayose. The Federal Ministry of Finance
should pay into workers’ accounts directly because we have lost
confidence in the government. The previous N9.6b bailout should be
probed. “We want to commend the Inspector General of Police, Mr Ibrahim Idris
and Director General of the DSS, Mr Lawal Daura for probing alleged
political thuggery levelled against PDP government in Ekiti.
“We also want a special force to be deployed to Ekiti to maintain peace
in Ekiti State because our lives are no longer safe . “We pass confidence vote in President Buhari for fighting corruption
and for all his developmental programmes”, he said. A students’ representative, Com. Samuel Olaoluwa commended the
anti-graft agency for coming up with a comprehensive data of how Fayose
allegedly looted Ekiti, saying nothing must be spared to ensure that
all the monies are recovered and culprits prosecuted for Ekiti to move
forward. “We must join the EFCC in the battle against graft. We should stop
politicising issues of graft because it affects every facet of the
country. We must stop this act of impunity and return Ekiti to the
path of honour, glory and sanity”, he said.