A member of the Lagos State House of Assembly, Hon. Segun Olulade has described the Senator representing Kogi West Senatorial District, Dino Melaye, as a big shame to the legislature. Olulade who represents Epe 2 constituency stated this through a statement issued in Lagos on Wednesday while reacting to a threat by Melaye on Tuesday to beat Senator Oluremi Tinubu during a closed-door session of the Senate over the forgery case against principal officers of the Senate. The lawmaker who noted that Melaye only displayed how hollow he is by threatening to beat another man’s wife, added that the Kogi Senator has verbal diarrhoea and has displayed his unworthiness to be part of the distinguished Senators to sit in the hallowed chamber. Speaking further, Olulade, pointed out that “no responsible and sane man will threaten to beat a woman, another man’s wife for that matter. Melaye’s action has shown that most of the things said about him are nothing but the truth. “Any responsible individual that is truly worthy to be called a Senator, a position that convokes respect, decorum and decent public conduct, should be able to manage his temper and anger. The fact that one is a Senator does not impose lunacy on the fellow to disparage others “Dino has exposed himself as a simpleton and a court jester whose words and tactlessness cannot be taken seriously by matured people. If at all he has anything to offer, he should concentrate on making good laws for the people of Nigeria rather than looking for cheap and undeserved publicity by threatening to beat a fellow Senator. “With this recent action by Senator Melaye, he has so descended to a ridiculous level, thus displaying to the whole world his unworthiness to sit in the hallowed chambers of the Nigerian Senate,” the statement read in part. Olulade, however, cautioned the Senator to start behaving with decorum, noting that as a legislator, “he should be an advocate of maintenance of law and order, how will he take if someone threatens to beat his wife,” he queried.