 BUSINESS and other activities in Lagos, the nation’s economic nerve centre, and Abuja, the Federal Capital Territory, FCT, yesterday, went unhindered as residents shunned the strike declared by a faction of Nigeria Labour Congress, NLC, led by Ayuba Wabba, to protest the N145 hike in pump price of petrol. This came as reports across the states indicated that there was only partial compliance to the strike in a few states. The Senate also, yesterday, asked its Committee on Employment, Labour and Productivity to interface with the Federal Government and the NLC on the face-off between both parties. In Lagos, seaports, airports, banks, public offices, schools, factories, markets and others did their businesses unhindered as commercial bus operators started operations in the early hours of the day. From Obalende to Ketu, Ojota to Mile 12 markets, trading activities went on unhindered, while vehicular traffic was busy as usual. However, it was observed that an OP MESA patrol vehicle and about 15 police personnel in an Amoured Personnel Carrier, APC, were stationed at Gani Fawehinmi Park, Ojota. Also, all the LAGBUS buses did not operate, as they were all parked in Yaba. Wabba-led NLC  protests in Lagos But  some members of Wabba-led NLC and Joint Action Front, JAF, held a protest march from Yaba office of the NLC from about 8:00 a.m, through Ikorodu Road to Murtala Muhammed International Airport, Ikeja, urging Nigerians to participate in the strike. Speaking to Vanguard, President of National Union of Petroleum and Natural Gas Workers, NUPENG, Igwe Achese, reiterated that members were not on strike, assuring that fuel supplies would not be disrupted at all. According to him, NUPENG is aligning fully with  Comrade Joseph Ajaero-led faction of the NLC not to embark on a nationwide strike. The union directed all its members nationwide to go to work and ignore the calls by the Ayuba- led faction of the NLC to go on strike Labour movement in a peaceful demonstration against PMS price hike called by the Nigeria Labour Congress and some of the affiliates on the streets of the Federal Capital Territory, Abuja. Photo by Abayomi Adeshida . He called on members working in oil installations and loading depots to be alive to their responsibilities, insisting that all filling stations must be opened for the petrol station workers to dispense petroleum products to end users. Achese enjoined oil marketers to open their depots for members of the Petroleum Tanker Drivers, PTDs, branch of the union to load petroleum products to the different locations in the country. Workers defy strike in Abuja In Abuja, the industrial action failed as workers in public and private sectors disobeyed the sit-at-home order and showed up to perform their duties. A survey carried out by Vanguard showed that in the Federal Secretariat, office of the Head of Civil Service of the Federation, office of the Secretary to the Government of the Federation and the National Assembly, civil servants were at their duty posts. At the National Assembly complex, civil servants were seen going about their normal businesses and aiding lawmakers to carry out their legislative businesses of the day, including plenary. Banking services, couriers, food vendors, cleaning as well as other sundry services were all made available to customers, ruling out the effectiveness of the strike. See more photo The announcement by the Federal Government that it would apply the principle of “no work-no pay if workers decided to heed the call to stay at home, might have helped cripple the strike. The Federal Government warned civil servants against any attempt to stay away from work, in a circular issued by the Office of the Head of Service of the Federation (OHSOF) in Abuja, yesterday morning. The circular, signed by the Permanent Secretary (Common Services Office), Mr Yemi Adelakun, said:  ‘’All civil servants are expected to report punctually to work daily.  All Permanent Secretaries and Heads of Extra-Ministerial Departments are, hereby, mandated to ensure strict compliance with this directive.” Wabba-led NLC lauds members, allies Meanwhile, the Wabba-led NLC commended its members and civil society allies for turning out, yesterday, to prosecute the strike. In a statement by its General Secretary, Dr. Peter Ozo-Eson, the Wabba faction said: “We salute their courage, patriotism and sacrifice in the face of overwhelming acts of threats and treachery. We note that no reasonable struggle comes easy, and this cannot be different. Thus, in pursuance of the mandate given by the NEC of the congress in conjunction with our civil society allies, the protest continues tomorrow. “Accordingly, we urge you to mobilise your members, friends or colleagues for the continuation of the protest tomorrow (today).” Senate asks c’ttee to interface with FG, NLC Meanwhile, the Senate, yesterday, asked its Committee on Employment, Labour and Productivity to interface with the Federal Government and the Nigeria Labour Congress, NLC. It urged the committee, led by Senator Nazif Suleiman (APC, Bauchi North), to constantly meet with both teams currently on the negotiation table as a way of finding lasting solution to the problem. The Senate specifically directed the committee to commence dialogue with the negotiating team to ensure an early resolution of the crisis. The upper chamber took the decision after a 35-minute session presided over by the Deputy President of the Senate, Senator Ike Ekweremadu. Reading resolutions of the Senators after the executive session, Ekweremadu, said:  “The Senate in a closed session deliberated on the nationwide strike by labour and the ways of resolving the issues to avoid untold hardships to Nigerians. “We also mandated the committee on Labour under the chairmanship of Mohammed Nasif to continue to interface with both government and labour for an early resolution of all the matters.” Osun In Osun State, Gbenga Olarinoye reports from Osogbo that the strike was partially successful, following protest by labour leaders in the early hours, paralyzing economic activities in Osogbo. According to him, normal activities, however, picked up in the state capital after the protesters had dispersed. Labour leaders, who spoke at rallies, urged the citizens to resist the petrol price increase, arguing that the policy was inhuman and inflicting pains on Nigerians. Ogun In Abeokuta,Ogun State, Daud Olatunji reports that beside the partial success of the strike in Ogun State  where some government offices were shut, there was alleged  arrest of three labour  leaders. State chairman of NLC, Akeem Ambali, disclosed this in Abeokuta when he led a rally of the labour union to the state headquarters  of the Nigeria Union of Journalists at Oke Ilewo in protest against the recent fuel price hike. But, in a swift reaction, the state Deputy Police Public Relations Officer, Abimbola Oyeyemi, denied any arrest claim, saying the leaders of the NLC in that zone were merely invited by the Divisional Police Officer in Sagamu to eschew violence and not allow hoodlums to hijack the peaceful protest. Bayelsa According to Samuel Oyadongha from Yenagoa, the strike was a failure as the state secretariat complex in Yenagoa was opened for business. Public and private schools were also in session when Vanguard went round town. He said while some banks were shut to customers, others were seen rendering skeletal services. Enugu In Enugu State,  Emeka Mamah and Chinedu Adonu, report that the strike was partially successful. Vanguard observed that there were normal academic activities in primary and post-primary schools in the state, while many civil servants in both state and federal ministries were seen carrying out their official duties. Some civil servants, who spoke on the condition of anonymity, said they were in office waiting for further directives from their union leaders. Contacted, the state chairman of the NLC, Comrade Virginus Nwobodo, said leaders of the NLC in the state complied and were observing the strike, except the Trade Union Congress, TUC, members who had not joined the industrial action. Kano According to Abdulsalam Muhammad in Kano, it was business as usual as residents failed to comply with the strike. Markets were opened for business, as banks ran full services to customers on a day primary, secondary and tertiary institutions opened up classes for academic activities. Checks round the city showed that there were activities in most government hospitals in the city as  the General Outpatients Department was packed with patients. Edo In Edo State, Simon Ebegbulem & Gabriel Enogholase report that the strike was partially successful as state public servants stayed away from their offices. However, it was observed by Vanguard that banks, courts and some public schools were open for business, even as federal parastatals and agencies in the state also opened for business. Meanwhile, the Edo State Government, in a statement by Head of Service, Mrs. Gladys Idahor, directed workers in the state public service to shun the strike and stay at their duty posts, warning that any worker who shunned work under the guise of strike would forfeit his or her pay. Benue In Makurdi, Benue State, Peter Duru reports that civil servants and private sector workers in the state, shunned the strike. When Vanguard visited the state secretariat, banks and other private organizations in Makurdi, workers were seen in their respective offices going about their  duties. Some who spoke on condition of anonymity, said they turned up for work because the leadership of labour in the state was yet to formally brief them on the matter. When contacted, state council chairman of the NLC, Comrade Godwin Anya, said workers in the state would comply with the directive and commence an indefinite strike from Thursday. Adamawa   According to Umar Yusuf from Yola,  some ministries, departments and parastatals complied after labour leaders went round to enforce the strike. Earlier in the day, most of the offices were open for business, but labour leaders went round to ensure compliance. The enforcement led to the closure of the state secretariat complex at about noon, while in some other key government places, labour leaders almost clashed with workers as they resisted the closure of their premises. Oyo Ola Ajayi reports from  Ibadan that there was partial compliance as protest by members of Academic Staff Union of Universities, JAF and NLC temporarily paralysed commercial and vehicular activities in the metropolis. As early as 7am, leaders of the unions assembled at the state secretariat  of  NLC, Agodi Gate, Ibadan from where they moved to several places in the city. Led by the state NLC Chairman, Mr. Waheed Olojede; National Treasurer of ASUU, Dr. Ademola Aremu, and others, the protesters went through Beere, Molete, Dugbe, Mokola roundabout, Sango, to Oyo State Secretariat. Probably due to the fact that all workers in the state did not join them, Olojede asked them and other Nigerians to join the struggle because it was meant to emancipate them from the stranglehold of inconsiderate and oppressive leaders. Delta According to Festus Ahon, in Asaba, there was partial  compliance in Asaba, Warri and other commercial towns in the state  as  federal and state secretariats on Okpanam Road and Mariam Babangida Way respectively were locked with no worker in sight. The old state secretariat on Summit Road, some public primary, secondary and tertiary institutions in the state were also shut in compliance with NLC’s strike call. Also shut down at press time, were the state-owned Broadcasting Service, Asaba, and Warri, and government-owned Pointer newspaper, Asaba. However, a source told Vanguard that some staff were being asked to report at work to render skeletal services. While some of the banks opened, others did not. Kwara According to Demola Akinyemi in Ilorin, workers and teachers in primary and post primary schools complied with the strike. Vanguard’s visit to the state secretariat along Ahmadu Bello Way, Ilorin and other ministries, indicated  that workers that arrived early enough for their duties were prevented by labour leaders from getting to their duty posts. Also at Bank Road, along Unity and Taiwo area of Ilorin, some banks were seen running skeletal services for customers, while some closed their offices for fear of being hijacked by unscrupulous elements.   Anambra Enyim Enyim & Chimaobi Nwaiwu, report that there was partial compliance with the strike as workers reported to their offices as early as 8 a.m. but left after signing their attendance registers. Abia According  to Anayo Okoli in Umuahia, there was partial compliance with the strike as some civil servants reported for work, while some students and pupils who went to school were asked to go home by their teachers who took part in the strike. Chairman of NLC in the state, Comrade Uchenna Obigwe, put the level of compliance at between 70 and 80 per cent but said that by today, there would be total compliance. Rivers According to Jimitota Onoyume in Port Harcourt, the strike was a total failure in the state. He said efforts by the faction to enforce the strike by rushing to lock the gates of the state secretariat in Port Harcourt failed as it was flung open minutes later. Civil servants were at their desks in the state secretariat and other activities went on smoothly. Niger Wole Mosadomi, in Minna, reports that there was a mild drama at the main gate leading to the secretariat, as some workers resumed for official work. While some of the workers were trying to force themselves through the locked gate, few others insisted that the strike must be embarked upon, thereby causing confusion at the gate. All commercial banks were open for business  without any molestation, while students were also seen in their various schools with lessons going on normally. Akwa Ibom According to Chioma Onuegbu in Uyo, workers in the state joined in the strike. The different unions that stormed the Idongesit Nkanga Secretariat at about 11am, chanting solidarity songs, urged the Federal Government to revert the fuel pump price to N86.50 kobo. Plateau In Jos, Marie-Therese Nanlong reports that the strike was partially successful in Plateau State as some sectors of the economy were shut down by the union. State Chairman of the NLC, Comrade Jubrin Bancir, told Vanguard that the union will systematically ground every sector until the Federal Government reverted the pump price of fuel. Kaduna Luka Binniyat reports that normal activities went on in Kaduna. But, Chairman, Kaduna State Chapter of the NLC, Comrade Adamu Ango, said the strike was downplayed to avoid bloodshed. He said: “We have been informed from very competent security sources that a violent group has been contracted to position itself in the direction of our planned procession. “The plan is that they will start throwing stones at us to cause confusion and give it a semblance of fighting. Then security agents will move in to shoot certain people or arrest some of us. All this is to spark violence, so that the NLC will be blamed.” However,  all ministries, parastatals and agencies of both federal and state governments were open for business. Banks, markets, hotels and schools ran their affairs smoothly. It was, however ,gathered, that Academic Staff Union of University, ASUU, branches of Ahmadu Bello University, ABU, and Kaduna State University, KASU, were warming up to join the strike. Ebonyi Peter Okutu in Abakaliki said workers shunned the strike, as they were compelled to fill attendance notebooks or risk their salaries. Meanwhile, the state chairman of the NLC, Comrade Ikechukwu Nwafor led other labour leaders to lock most of the offices in the state as early as 7am to bar workers from gaining access to their workplace. At the state secretariat, workers were locked outside for two hours until a detachment of Ebonyi State Police Command was mobilized to ensure that no worker was harassed by the labour leaders in the state. FG fully committed to implementation of palliatives Meanwhile, the Federal Government, yesterday, assured Nigerians that it was fully committed to quick implementation of palliatives in the 2016 budget, while developing other ways to alleviate the sufferings of Nigerians that might arise because of the recent deregulation of the downstream sector of the Petroleum industry. Speaking through the Minister of Labour & Employment, Senator Chris Ngige, government said it was ready to recommence negotiation with the Nigeria Labour Congress any time. Ngige dismissed claims by the Ayuba Wabba-led NLC that it was not consulted by government before the deregulation. Ngige in a statement said: “It is instructive to note that most Nigerians have shown great understanding of the fact that the current problem is not a subsidy removal issue but how to deal with the non-availability of foreign exchange, a situation that leaves the Federal Government with no other choice than to deregulate the downstream sector of the petroleum industry which resulted in rise in pump price of petroleum. “In view of the above, the Federal Government is fully committed to the quick implementation of the palliatives in the 2016 budget, while developing other ways to alleviate the sufferings of Nigerians. “The Federal Government appreciates all the important issues raised by the labour unions and has taken them into consideration. Government is resolute in making sure that the economy is not only strong but able to provide jobs and opportunities for all Nigerians.” . That the federal government went to court to seek an injunction restraining labour from embarking on strike because there is a clear process of declaring labour strike under the law. It is therefore the view of government that those processes were not complied with before the NLC called the strike. “I wish to further state that series of meetings and consultations were held between the federal government through the Minister of State Petroleum, the Office of the Vice President, the Minister of Labour and Employment and organised labour unions.    It bears putting on record that on the 4th  of May 2016 while discussing the template put forward by the Minister of State Petroleum, the NLC, TUC, NUPENG, PENGASSAN and other major stakeholders even advised that the NNPC pricing should be same with that of the Independent Petroleum Marketing Companies at N140 per litre. There was another meeting on May 11, 2016 where Governors, National Assembly leadership and some ministers were in attendance with NLC, TUC, PENGASSAN and NUPENG promising    to take the decision of the meeting to their respective organs for further necessary actions.