Some prominent indigenes of Lagos State under the aegis of Eko Foundation have expressed their dismay about some political appointments and recent sack of some Permanent Secretaries in the state which they alleged were done against the interest of the indigenes of the state. They, however, advised Governor Akinwunmi Ambode to desist from taking decisions that will continue to maginalise Lagos indigenes, saying that the group will no longer fold their hands and watch its people turn to “second fiddle” in their own state. Eko Foundation is a Press release signed by its President, Prof Imram Oluwole Smith SAN and the secretary Kunle Uthman said, “The reasons for this palpable fear, apprehension, trepidation and ill-feelings are founded on the most recent sack and dismissal of Indigenes in the Lagos State civil and public services; appointment of non indigenes as Chief-of-Staff and Commissioners; retirement of Permanent Secretaries who are Indigenes without any reasons given for truncating their careers; dissolution of duly constituted Commissions and Boards, which tenures were still subsisting; appointment of a non indigene as Acting Vice Chancellor of the Lagos State University (LASU) etc. “That the present Chief Of Staff to the Lagos State Governor is an indigene of Ekiti State, thereby making it impossible for prominent Lagosians to have access to their government and acting as a clog in interface with the Governor. There is no State in Nigeria that will tolerate this anomaly and indulgence, which the indigenes consider very frustrating. Is it to be assumed that no indigene of Lagos State can occupy this extremely sensitive position?” “The fact of the cosmopolitan nature of our State and large heartedness as a race are no justifications whatsoever to relegate us to “second fiddle” in our State. When push comes to shove, the non indigenes have a back up, while we, the indigenes have no other place to navigate to but remain in that geographical enclave, which is our state of origin. “Politically, more than ever before, we have several non indigenes representing our State in the House of Representatives and indeed in the State House of Assembly. Prominent positions in the Lagos State Civil Service are occupied by our brothers and sisters in neighbouring states, based on well orchestrated ill-motivated foresights of their predecessors”. The prominent Lagosians also alleged that, “A Commissioner from the eastern part of Nigeria took charge of Budgeting and finances in Lagos State for almost 16 years, within which time he dutifully filled vacant positions in the State Civil Service, Agencies and departments in his Ministry with his brothers and sisters from that region. As at today, prominent positions and offices in our civil and public services are occupied by non-indigenes, which is not replicated or tolerated by any other State in the Federation. There has been consistent violation of the provisions of the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria on federal character as non indigenes occupy the slots of Lagos State on Boards, Federal Government parastatals and foreign service. The membership of this body stated that “with reference to the Lagos State Judiciary, the successor to the present Chief Judge of the State is an indigene of Ogun State, who may assume that exalted office in 2017, after the tenure of the Incumbent Chief Judge. “Eko Foundation has resolved that what is sauce for the Goose, should also be sauce for the Gander. That is, what applies in governments of other states should necessarily be replicated in Lagos State. For the sake of our children, we can no longer and will no longer tolerate the status of second class people within our geographical space.” The group noted that, “The Cosmopolitan nature of our State has become a curse and an albatross. We have nothing against non indigenes to live and prosper in our State and this is confirmed by our kindness, fairness and good nature towards them. However non indigenes more than ever before are conscious of the need to repatriate their corpses to their indigenous states of origin for burial, build mansions in their states of origin and gladly retreat to their indigenous States of origin for social festivals and landmark events, while for us, Lagos is Home”. They also expressed dissatisfaction about the roles being played by the traditional rulers by not calling the governor to order but noted that “it is the elites and educated ones particularly those in government and positions of authority that must be held responsible for the pitiable relegation of our people”. And to check the trend, “The leadership of Eko Foundation (Eko Akete, Ile Ogbon) and its membership have collectively resolved that it will never ever again “siddon look” and pretend that all is well at the expense of our race. We will endeavour to periscope this administration and ensure that they correct obvious anomalies and anti-indigene policies and ensure that our efforts are duly recognised and appreciated; that our children are not treated with odium, disdain, ignored, relegated to the background, sidelined and made second class citizens within the socio-political dynamics of our State. “It is important that our revered Royal Fathers, Senior Citizens, Former Governors, Lagosians in the diaspora and at home should lend their support to our efforts. Our ancestors are not happy in their graves and we all must collectively salvage our dignity as a race.