President Muhammadu Buhari signed the 2016 appropriation bill into law on Friday. This follows months of political drama, with stolen documents, sacked officials, and budget padding delaying the budget’s passage for months. President Muhammadu Buhari signed the 2016 appropriation bill into law on Friday. This follows months of political drama, with stolen documents, sacked officials, and budget padding delaying the budget’s passage for months. Drama began in December 2015 when hard and soft copies of the 2016 budget went missing. It was revealed that the documents were stolen under the direction of the All Progressives Congress leadership in order to correct some inconsistencies within the budget. In February this year, the president removed 22 top officials from the budget office, including the budget chief, over allegations of budget padding, in which officials added unauthorized revisions to the national budget.  A total of 184 public officials were eventually removed from office due to their involvement in the budget padding scandal. REMARKS BY PRESIDENT MUHAMMADU BUHARI AT THE SIGNING OF THE 2016 APPROPRIATION BILL INTO LAW ON FRIDAY, MAY 6, 2016, ABUJA 1.     It gives me great pleasure today to sign the first full-year budget of this administration into law.  I thank the leadership of the National Assembly, in particular, the Senate President and the Speaker of the House of Representatives, and indeed all members of the National Assembly for their cooperation in making this a reality. 2.   The budget is intended to signpost a renewal of our commitment to restoring the budget as a serious article of faith with the Nigerian people. This Administration is committed to ensuring that henceforth the annual appropriation bill is presented to the National Assembly in time for the passage of the Act before the beginning of the fiscal year. 3.   Through the 2016 budget, aptly titled “Budget of Change’’, the government seeks to fulfill its own side of the social contract. The Budget I have signed into law provides for aggregate expenditures of N6.06trn. Further details of the approved budget, as well as our Strategic Implementation Plan for the 2016 budget, will be provided by the Honourable Minister of Budget and National Planning. 4.   I shall be speaking in more details about the Budget, its implementation and the over-all national economic and social policies of the Government in my address on May 29th, God willing. 5.    In designing the 2016 budget, we made a deliberate choice to pursue an expansionary fiscal policy despite the huge decline in government revenues from crude oil exports. This is why we decided to enlarge the budget deficit at this time, to be financed principally through foreign and domestic borrowings.  All borrowings will however be applied towards growth-enhancing capital expenditures. 6.   The signing of the budget today will trigger concerted efforts to reflate the Nigerian economy, a key element of which is an immediate injection of N350bn into the economy by way of capital projects. To illustrate our renewed commitment to infrastructural development, the 2016 budget allocates over N200bn to road construction as against a paltry N18bn allocated for same purpose in the 2015 budget. 7.    Despite the current difficulties we will work extra-hard to achieve our revenue projections. Our revenue generating agencies are coming under better management and are being re-oriented. The implementation of the Treasury Single Account (TSA) is expected to contribute significantly to improving transparency over government revenues. 8.   Our determined fight against corruption is resulting in improvements in the quality of public expenditure. The work of the Efficiency Unit, as well as other public financial management initiatives, are also contributing in this regard. The continuing efforts to reduce recurrent expenditures should hopefully free up more funds for capital expenditure in 2017 and beyond. 9.   As I said in my New Year message, living in State House does not in any way alienate me from your daily struggles. I read the newspapers and listen to the TV and radio news. I hear your cries. I share your pains. 10.  We are experiencing probably the toughest economic times in the history of our Nation. I want to commend the sacrifice, resilience and toughness of all Nigerians young and old who have despite the hardships continued to have hope and confidence of a great future for Nigerians. But permit me to say that this government is also like none other. We are absolutely committed to changing the structure of the Nigerian economy once and for all. 11.  We are working  night and day to diversify the economy so that we never again have to rely on one commodity to survive as a country. So that we can produce the food we eat, make our own textiles, produce most of the things we use. We intend to create the environment for our young peoples to be able to innovate and create jobs through technology. 12.  I cannot promise you that this will be an easy journey, but in the interest of so much and so many we must tread this difficult path.  I can assure you that this government you have freely elected will work with honesty and dedication, day and night to ensure that our country prospers and that the prosperity benefits all Nigerians. God bless Federal Republic of Nigeria.