The Southern Kaduna Peoples Union (SOKAPU), an umbrella body for ethnic nationalities in the southern part of Kaduna state, has asked communities in the southern part of the state to take adequate measures to protect themselves against the murderous and destructive activities of Fulani herdsmen which has the area. In a statement condemning the murder the district head of Fadan Karshi, Sanga local government of the state, Mr. Bala Madaki, who was killed along with his nephew last Sunday night in his residence allegedly by armed Fulani men, SOKAPU said the time had come for communities to explore other means of thwarting the persistent attacks which had ravaged some of the communities. The statement which was signed by the President of SOKAPU, Mr. Solomon Musa, a lawyer, maintained that the people owe a duty to themselves to adopt measures for self-defence in order to put a stop to the massive killings and destruction by rampaging Fulani herdsmen. This, according to him, is the only way to complement efforts by the state government to curtail the killings. “We are also calling on the people of Sanga, and all other communities in Southern Kaduna that have borne the brunt of countless attacks from suspected herdsmen, to begin to explore other self-help means of thwarting these persistent attacks that have left some of the Southern Kaduna people in ruins. “This self-help is to complement whatever measures the state government has/is taking to curtail these killings. We owe it to ourselves to reduce the numbers of mass graves used in burying our people; from becoming increased features of our communities. “The Southern Kaduna Peoples Union (SOKAPU) has again received the news of the unprovoked attack on Fadan Karshi in Sanga Local Government by suspected herdsmen. The attackers killed the district head, Mr. Bala Madaki, 66, and his nephew, Emmanuel Tanko, who was writing the 2016 West African Senior Secondary School Certificate Examination. “Violence is no stranger to Sanga Local Government. Natives of the area have been massacred in indescribable manners for years. In the past two years, more than 200 people have been killed so far in Sanga Local Government alone.