 Doyin Okupe, the erstwhile Senior Special Assistant to former President Goodluck Jonathan, on Wednesday, appeared as the third defence witness (DW3) for Olisa Metuh, the embattled national spokesperson of the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP who is standing trial over his alleged role in the infamous $2.1 billion arms deal, involving the former National Security Adviser, NSA, Col. Sambo Dasuki (retd). Metuh is being prosecuted alongside his company, Destra Investment Limited on a 7-count charge before Justice Okon Abang of the Federal High Court, Abuja by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, EFCC, He is accused of allegedly receiving N400million (four hundred million naira) from former NSA, Col. Dasuki (retd). At an earlier sitting on Tuesday, May 17, 2016, the defence had present Ifeanyi Odenigbo, a consultant with Q-time Nigeria Limited, who had told the court that, there was a remittance of N450million from the Office of the NSA to Destra Nig Limited; the source of which he said was not made known to him. At the resumed sitting today, Okupe while being led in evidence by Metuh’s counsel, Onyechi Ikpeazu, SAN, narrated how he was part of the meeting in which Metuh made a presentation on what could be done to launder the image of the then president and that of the PDP. “After the meeting, the president said he will make a directive for Metuh to be mobilised with funds to carry out the project. The next day, Metuh called me to tell me that his account had been credited with N400m”, Okupe said. Under cross examination by counsel to EFCC, Sylvanus Tahir, Okupe, admitted that, government institutions and agencies are not part of the organs of the party. When shown one of the exhibits (e-payment mandate) from the Office of the NSA, detailing the transfer of the sum N400m to Destra Investment Limited, Okupe claimed he does not understand the document neither does he know what it is all about. Thereafter, Ikpeazu sought for an adjournment on the grounds that Metuh has a health challenge. Consequently, Justice Abang adjourned to May 19, 2016 for continuation of defence.