 Kaduna State Acting Publicity Secretary of the All Progressive Congress (APC), Alhaji Salisu Tanko Wusono, said the party in the state would take further disciplinary measures that may lead to the expulsion of Senator Shehu Sani as a result of his alleged disregard for the party and its constitution.
It would be recalled that Senator Shehu Sani is currently serving eleven months suspension from the party for anti-party activities. Briefing newsmen in Kaduna Thursday, the acting publicity secretary of the party said, “The APC in Kaduna State fully supports the decisive policy decision to eliminate the subsidy racket that has milked our people, stolen money from the treasury and subjected our people to untold hardships.
“While the President is taking difficult decisions and boldly confronting the obstacles standing in the way of Nigeria’s progress, it is disappointing that some people see this only as another opportunity to exhibit their lack of patriotism and party spirit. National interest, and the long term welfare of our people, eludes this people who are motivated only by their own narrow ambition. They want to deceive people into thinking that progress can come without sacrifice. “The Kaduna State APC is dismayed and disappointed by the continued irresponsible conduct of Shehu Sani. In speech and conduct, he has shown himself incapable of loyalty to our party, the APC and our great leader, President Muhammadu Buhari. “Having ridden on the back of our party and the popularity of Buhari to get to the Senate, Shehu Sani has since abandoned any pretension to discipline or loyalty to any principle. He pretends to be with the people, but his masters are the corrupt people on whose behalf he has been attacking our President. “Shehu Sani’s attacks against President Buhari began last year, before he was sworn in as a Senator. Shehu Sani had formed an alliance with a group of corrupt, disloyal, and greedy men who defiled our party, went against the wishes of the party and foised a strange leadership on the Senate.
“The gang that Shehu Sani joined had no problem making a PDP man Deputy President of the Senate, all in their selfish and ungodly calculations for 2019. Shehu Sani followed up by attacking the President for fighting corruption. This gang of dubious politicians think that they can set the people against our President. But the people are resolutely with President Buhari.” Reacting to the earlier press conference organized by the party in the state, the Senior Special Adviser to Senator Shehu Sani, Alhaji Suleiman Ahmed, said irrespective of the circumstances, Senator Shehu Sani would always stand for the truth on anything that has to do with the overall interest of Nigerians. On the stand of Senatr Sani over the recent hike in the pump price of petroleum product, he said as a comrade, Senator Sani would continue to challenge any policy that will not be in the interest of the electorate that voted him into office. He added that Senator Shehu Sani became the Senator representing Kaduna Central as a result of his acceptability to the electorate and his earlier contributions to the peace, unity and development of the country contrary to the allegation that he rode on the back of the party and the popularity of Buhari to get to the Senate.