 YENAGOA—There was tension in Yenagoa, Bayelsa State capital, yesterday, following the murder of a senior police officer, identified as Mathew Akpos by gunmen described as “special Police Squad.” IGP-Solomon-Arase Akpos, an Assistant Superintendent of Police, ASP, was reportedly murdered by gunmen close to the OMPADEC school field in Amarata suburb of Yenagoa at about 5pm on Monday. In a related development, unidentified gunmen, yesterday, invaded Rumukwachi community in Obio/Akpor Local Government Area of Rivers State and abducted two residents. The yet to be known gunmen who visited the community made away with one Mr. Lucky Amadi and Mr. Rotimi, his neighbour. It was also gathered that stray bullets from the gunshots fired by those who attacked Akpos allegedly hit an elderly woman on the leg and in the stomach, before she was reportedly rushed to the Federal Medical Centre, FMC, where doctors were said to be battling to save her life. An eye witness and resident of the area who identified the gunmen as “Special Police Squad” from an unknown police division said: “The gunmen dressed like men of special police squad. They wore the outfits of the Special Anti-Robbery Squad, SARS, and police bullet-proof vests and drove into the community in a black Hilux vehicle before hitting their target. “There were gunshots all over the place. I was at a supermarket directly opposite the scene of the incident. The way they drove into the community was suspicious and sent panic waves all over the place. The gunshots caused commotion in the area as people even youths who were playing football abandoned the game and scampered for safety.” Another source from the community said the gunmen trailed the victim to the area and wanted to force him into their vehicle, adding that while Akpos was being dragged into the car, he resisted his assailants and in the process pulled out his pistol from its casing. However, he said: “One of the gunmen, who was standing close to the Hilux van, immediately pulled out his gun and shot the victim.”