TWO persons, Onyemachi Oge and Okechukwu Oma were friday sentenced to death by hanging by a High court sitting in Abakaliki, Ebonyi state for kidnapping a medical doctor, Dr. Chuka Manyike in the state. The duo alongside Chukwuemeka Levi, Idris Oken, Edeke Desmond and Ijeoma oge were accused of kidnapping Manyinke, a Doctor of Pediatrics at the Federal Teaching Hospital, Abakaliki on 5th May, 2013 at his private hospital, No 15 Owerri street Abakaliki. Manyinke’s security guard identified simply as Peter was shot dead during the kidnap for attempting to prevent the hoodlums from kidnapping his boss, Manyinke. The sum of N3million ransom was paid before the release of the medical doctor after six days in captivity. Oge and Oma got N200, 000 from the total ransom paid. Oma, a tailor opposite Manyinke’s hospital provided information to the kidnappers and gave them directive on how to perfect their plan while Oge supplied beer, biscuits and water to the doctor during his days in captivity. All the accused persons have been in prison custody since the incident. Delivering judgment on the matter yesterday at High court 3, the trial judge, Justice Eze Udu said the prosecution counsel; I.I Anikwe proved his case against Onyemachi Oge the 4th accused person and Chukwu Oma 6th accused person in the case beyond reasonable doubt and sentenced them to death by hanging. He discharged and acquitted the 1st accused person(Levi), 2nd accused person(Oken), 3rd accused person(Desmond) and 5th accused person(0ge) and however recommended that Ijeoma Oge the 5th accused and the husband who is at large be charged for conspiracy and kidnapping for allowing their house to be used in keeping the victim during the incident. In his reaction, counsel to the 3rd, 4th and 5th accused persons, Barrister D.I Njoku said he is already preparing to appeal the judgment against the 4th accused person who was convicted and sentenced to death by hanging. Meanwhile, a high court also sitting in the state yesterday sentenced a woman, Mrs Josephine Onwuzuruike and her boy friend, Ekene Onyeka to death by hanging. The woman and Onyeka had in 2008 at Azuiyiokwu, Abakaliki butchered Josephine’s husband and kept his parts inside cupboard. The Josephine had accused the husband of attempting to marry another wife by building a separate house other than the one they were living and contacted the boyfriend who came joined her in murdering the husband. Delivering judgment on the case, the trial judge Justice Benson Ogbuh found the accused persons guilty of the offence and convicted them. He sentenced them to death by hanging. Josephine, after the incident wept uncontrollable and pleaded with the judge to be lenient on her because of her children.