 The National Conscience Party, NCP, has condemned in its entirety what it called the “current illegal, crude, callous and wicked 85% increment in the price of petrol” by the federal government. Comrade Ayodele Akele, General Secretary, in a statement on Tuesday said the increment defied all forms of logic. It said as at the time crude oil sold for over $112.00 in 2012, petrol pump price was N97.00, but now at $40.00 per barrel, pump price has sky-rocketed to N145.00. The way and manner the increment was carried out has all the hallmark of a coup. It reads further: “This is an economic coup against the downtrodden masses and the overwhelming majority of Nigerians.Our stances on this reactionary development are as follows: First, as at May 7 2016, the mythical ‘subsidy’ on petrol was placed at N12.62 according to the Petroleum Products Pricing Regulatory Agency (PPPRA) price template. “All of a sudden, by May 11 2016, the entire PPPRA template was changed and according to that template there was little or no “fuel subsidy” on petrol. Where did the N58.50 come from all of a sudden? “Vice President Osinbajo, still maintains that there is subsidy on petrol even at the hiked price of N145.00, effectively meaning that more price increments are still on the agenda within the next weeks or few months. What these developments point to is that the economic policies of this regime is not different from the PDP and it defies all forms of reasonable logic. “In the past few weeks, all the agents of this APC regime promised that by the time the budget is signed into law, their“change” agenda would begin. But millions did not expect that 85% hike in petrol price was their much talked about solution. “We are not surprised in any way as we know the antecedent of the APC. Many had believed and trusted the earlier stances of President Buhari, who once asserted that there was never anything called fuel subsidy in Nigeria. “This government promised us many things but the exact opposite of those promises are what we are getting.”