The Lagos State Government on Wednesday said it has concluded plans to construct a world class medical park under a Public Private Partnership (PPP) arrangement. “It gives me great pleasure to announce that after the receipt of a Certificate of Compliance from the State Public Procurement Agency and a final presentation today to the Executive Council of Lagos State, approval has been given to MEDIPARK International Limited Consortium which comprises of MEDIPARK International Limited, Cleveland Clinics Ohio USA, St. Barnabas Healthcare System New Jersey and American Hospital Management Company Washington DC to be the developer to construct manage and operate a medical park. It is a joint venture arrangement with Ibile Holdings Ltd,” said Jide Idris, the State’s Commissioner for Health. Idris, who briefed journalists after the weekly State Executive Council Meeting alongside the Commissioner for Information and Strategy, Mr. Steve Ayorinde and Commissioner for Physical Planning and Urban Development, Mr. Wasiu Anifowose, said the project would be completed in 20 months, and that it would gulp about N49 billion, while the State Government would only provide the land and the market. The medical park would be sited at the former Lagos State School of Nursing site, spanning on Awolowo Road, Ikoyi, and will serve as a one stop shopping medical experience offering spaces to primary care physicians alongside in-house specialists as well as ancillary services providing a full range of excellent quality high technology cutting – edge medical and diagnostic services to cater for general and specialty medical services tailored to meet the medical needs of Lagosians and Nigerians at large. Idris said the facility, when completed, would comprise of a central management area, clinic complex, theatre complex and procedure rooms, ward complex, conference and seminar complex. It would also house medical goods and lifestyle shopping centre, stress management and lifestyle improvement unit. Other facilities to be included at the park are data cabling/integrated IT system, structured landscaping, residential accommodation, staff quarters, hotel, emergency and ambulance service, trauma unit and a helipad. He also said that the facility which will be built under the Public Private Partnership (PPP) initiative was a milestone in healthcare delivery aimed at reducing medical tourism abroad.