 Chairman of the Presidential Advisory Committee on National Conference in 2014, Senator Femi Okurounmu, has stated that the present state of affairs in the country should bring tears to the eyes of every Nigerian, asserting that the administration of President Muhammadu Buhari is worse than that of Jonathan. Accusing Buhari’s government of degrading the humanity of Nigerians and turning the country to animal kingdom, he told Vanguard that the president has no clue on how to revive the economy, pointing out that he has been vindicated for advising Nigerians not to vote for Buhari during the 2015 election. His words, “Buhari who is carrying the change mantra all about, his administration is worse than Jonathan’s. The whole country now has degraded very much; our leaders have degraded our humanity to animal kingdom. Buhari has no clue on how to revive the economy and yet we are carrying ‘change’ all about.
“I am happy with my conscience that I spoke out my mind during the election of 2015, I warned Nigerians not to vote for Buhari. I took out advertisements in newspapers on why we should not vote for Buhari. Even though Jonathan didn’t fight corruption, I asked us to vote for Jonathan so that we can restructure this country but people were crying ‘change’ in an ignorant manner.”
When told that it may be too early to compare Buhari’s government with Jonathan’s as the present administration is just a year and four months old, the Ogun Central Senator between 1999 and 2003 declared; “the morning shows the day. A man who runs four times for President, one would have assumed that he has plans to address the problems of this country. He tried in 2003 to run for President and also in 2007 and 2011 while 2015 was his fourth attempt. “One can’t run for President without making plans and also analysing how he is going to rule and try to do something to solve the problem. I believe he has been following the problems of this nation since before 2003 and had drawn plans he would pursue, if he became President. So, that his government is young is not an excuse at all. He didn’t just wake up one morning and to find himself as President.”