 The Director, Banking Supervision of the Central Bank of Nigeria CBN, Tokunbo Martins has described as false news making the round that some Nigerian banks are in crisis. Briefing Journalists at the end of theBankers Committeemeeting,Tokunbo Martins described the negative reports on the state of Nigerian banks as unfounded. She assured Nigerians that the financial sector is sound despite facing economic challenges which she identified as not peculiar to Nigeria as a country. In company of the Deputy Managing Director, Guaranty Trust Bank (GTBankPlc), Mrs. Cathy Echeozo; Managing Director/Chief Executive, Skye Bank Plc, Mr. TokunboAbiru; Managing Director/Chief Executive, Stanbic IBTC, Mr. YinkaSanni  and Director, Communication Department, CBN, Mr. Isaac Okoroafor, Martins said the Banks have strong capital base to meet their obligations. Explaining further, she said: “The report is false. The banks are adequately capitalized, so the report is not true. That does not mean that the banking sector is not feeling the economic headwinds. The headwinds are also in every other jurisdiction. It is not strange. So, non-performing loans at 11.7 per cent is not what we should focus on”. Making reference to the purported looming mass retrenchment inthe sector, she said: “One of the things we discussed was about the impending retrenchment in the banking industry. So, we understand that many bank staff are expressing fears about possible retrenchment in the industry. We discussed it among the banks and the banks are now committed to not retrenching their staff going forward. So, whatever rumours are flying around about that mass retrenchment happening or not happening, that is not true”. She also cautioned against exceeding CBN imposed annual limit of $50,000 on overseas dollar withdrawal through Naira denominated cards per cardholder.
Martins said:  “We have decided that the $50,000 annual limit will be limited to each BVN, irrespective of the bank accounts or cards linked to the BVN. We have also decided to impose sanction on anybody found to have breached this limit. This include barring such individuals”.