Vice-President Yemi Osinbajo has said Nigerians desire good governance, hence the need for the elite to unite for nation building. Osinbajo also disclosed that the Federal Government was working on a proposal on the establishment of the Diaspora Commission and a Diaspora investment plan worth about N1tn. According to a statement on Sunday by his Senior Special Assistant on Media and Publicity, Mr. Laolu Akande, the vice-president spoke at a dinner organised by the Christian Association of Nigerian-Americans, in Houston, United States of America, on Friday. “Even in the midst of all that the country is going through, there is a growing consensus by all and sundry on the need for good governance,” Osinbajo said. The vice-president stressed the need for Nigerians, committed to nation building, to stop those who were working to plunder the nation’s resources. He added, “This is why the President and I have made a call that we need a new tribe of Nigerians. We do need a new tribe of men and women of all faith, tribes and ethnicities, who are committed to a country run on high values of integrity, hard work, justice and love for the country. “I mean a tribe of men and women, who are prepared to make the sacrifices and self-constraints that are crucial to building a strong society; who are prepared to stick together, fight corruption side by side, and insist on justice.” He said the present administration took the Diaspora issue seriously, hence the President’s decision to appoint a former member of the House of Representatives, Mrs. Abike Daibiri-Erewa, as his Senior Special Assistant on the Diaspora. He added that there was a proposal for a Diaspora commission and bond worth N1tn for investment purposes by both Nigerians at home and abroad. Osinbajo commended CANAN for its accomplishments during its short existence. He listed some of the association’s achievements to include being in the forefront of the quest to designate Boko Haram as a foreign terrorist organisation by the US and also donating $50,000 in 2013 to Boko Haram victims. The President of CANAN, Dr. James Fadel, urged Nigerians to continue to pray for God to take the country out of its current predicament. He said the citizens must reject the tendency to be a consuming nation without the desire to also produce.