 The Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation has embarked on a more rigorous exploration for oil in the Gongola and other inland basin using the latest seismic data gathering technology. The NNPC Group Managing Director, Dr Maikanti Baru, in a statement on Saturday, said that the latest technology was similar to the ones used by neighbouring countries to discover oil in their countries.. He said the exploration was in strict compliance to President Muhammadu Buhari’s mandate. NNPC, he said, had therefore commenced activities in the Gongola Basin by awarding the contract for seismic data acquisition of over 500KM2 3D seismic data in the first instance. He said, “NNPC is deploying state of the art technology in the present data acquisition and we are confident that these efforts will lead to clearer definition of the prospectively of the basin.” He said that the contractors awarded the contract for the seismic data acquisition in the Gongola Basin, was Integrated Data Service Limited. Baru said the contractor was a subsidiary of the NNPC and Bureau for Geophysical Prospecting, a subsidiary of Chinese National Petroleum Corporation were mobilising to commence the project. The GMD said that the seismic data acquisition activities and exploration well drillings would provide employment opportunities for the youths. Baru said the multiplier effect of the envisaged employment would contribute to the economic empowerment of the surrounding communities and the nation at large. He said that NNPC was in the process of awarding the Environmental Baseline Studies and Environmental Impact Assessment to Abubakar Tafawa Balewa University, Bauchi and Modibbo Adama University of Technology, Yola. In their separate remarks, the governors of Bauchi an Gombe, Mohammad Abubakar and Ibrahim Dankwambo applauded the president for the pragmatic move to rigorously commence exploratory activities in the area. They both stressed that the move would further grow the nation’s oil and gas reserves. “I want to assure you of the unflinching support of Bauchi State and its good people towards this project. “We are ready to provide offices and accommodation for all NNPC staff that will work on this project,” Abubakar said. “Already, we have assigned two ministries that will work with your team on this laudable project. “I will work with my colleague Governors in the North- East to galvanize support from our people towards this project,” Dankwambo said. Dankwambo also called on the media to support this renewed oil search in the area. Giving their royal endorsements, the Emirs of Bauchi and Gombe reassured the Federal Government of their readiness to support the project, mobilise their subjects against interrupting the smooth operation of the exploratory activities in their domains. NAN