 Bosch Group, a global supplier of technology and services, says it is committed to delivering durable and quality products to its teeming consumers. “Quality has always been the most important thing for us at Bosch. Our aim is to improve peoples’ quality of life and spark enthusiasm,” the Chief Executive Officer, Robert Bosch West Africa, Ghislain Noumbessy, said. He spoke during the company’s innovation and technology day held in Lagos to further support their customers, consultants and end-users in Africa. According to the Regional Director, North, West and Central Africa, Theo Everaers, Bosch sees high potential in Nigerian market, a major reason for its huge investment. “We believe that local presence is key to our success as well as for the client’s satisfaction. Therefore, we are investing heavily in building up our team in Nigeria in order to serve our clients through sale support, marketing, technical support as well as training and after-sale service,” he said. The District Manager, West Africa at Bosch Security Systems, Paul Nwokolo, said the company was committed to helping consultants, security and safety professionals and enthusiasts expand their knowledge in safety, security and communication technologies. “With the opening of our training and certification centre in Lagos, Bosch Security Systems is now positioned to bring this knowledge to the door steps of Nigerians. The Bosch training and demo centre will be powered and fully equipped with the latest Bosch products and solutions,” he said. “We have improved our presence in Africa in the past few years and now represented in 10 countries, among them are Nigeria and Ghana. We really want to make sure that the Nigerian middle class as well as the base of the pyramid find in Bosch the kind of solution they need in order to improve their lives,” Noumbessy added. Currently, Bosch has its presence in Nigeria and the rest of sub-Saharan Africa with local offices already established in Algeria, Angola, Egypt, Kenya, Ghana, Morocco, Mozambique, South Africa and Tunisia.