The Growth and Emerging Markets Committee of the International Organisation of Securities Commissions is seeking to strengthen corporate governance’s framework of regulators in the emerging market. In its latest report on corporate governance in emerging markets, the body highlighted possible measures and regulatory approaches aimed at strengthening corporate governance in emerging market jurisdictions and aligning the regulatory framework with internationally recognised standards in the area. The IOSCO said on Monday that the report was the first review of its kind by securities regulators on current corporate governance practices in emerging markets. This, it said, was benchmarked against the revised G20/OECD Principles of Corporate Governance (OECD Principles). The Vice Chair, IOSCO Board, Ranjit Ajit Singh, who is  also the Chair of the Growth and Emerging Markets Committee was quoted to have said, “The report is an important and a timely assessment of the progress of emerging markets in aligning their regulatory framework and practices with global standards. “It makes useful recommendations to address issues associated with corporate governance in emerging markets. It also demonstrates the commitment by emerging market regulators to enhance corporate governance standards and reinforce resilience in their markets.” The Executive Chairman of CVM Brazil and Chair of the Task Force that conducted the work, Leonardo Pereira, said, “Securities regulators face, on a daily basis, problems that could be avoided or mitigated by the practical implementation of corporate governance principles and standards. “In this sense, I expect the report to be a concrete opportunity for securities regulators to consider possible ways for improvements in their regulatory frameworks, favoring sounder conduct standards and more effective governance structures.” The report, according to a statement by IOSCO, focuses on three key areas: board composition and responsibility; remuneration and incentive structures; and risk management and internal controls. The report is based on a comprehensive survey across regulators, exchanges, listed companies, institutional investors and other stakeholders on corporate governance practices in emerging market jurisdictions. The report, the statement added, reflected that the regulatory frameworks in emerging market jurisdictions were generally aligned with the recommendations of the OECD Principles. There is also broad agreement on the direction emerging market regulators should take to improve the quality and accountability of boards, ensure that remuneration and incentive structures are designed to create long term value, and improve the risk management frameworks and internal controls of corporations. In addition, the report also identifies further initiatives and approaches for raising the bar regarding the implementation of best corporate governance practices, including encouraging greater board diversity and quality reporting of sustainability, social responsibility and cyber risks.