The Nigerian Communications Commission’s call for more foreign investors into the Information and Communications Technology space has received resistance from industry players and observers. They argued on Thursday that considerations for the entry of more investors into the telecoms industry, at this time, were inappropriate given the many challenges being experienced by existing investors. Some of them told our correspondent that the existing challenges were yet to be addressed effectively, stressing that the current players had not even started enjoying a return on investment since their foray into the Nigerian telecoms market. Our correspondent recalls that in calling for more investors some weeks ago, the Executive Vice-Chairman, NCC, Prof. Umaru Danbatta, had said, “We are here to restrategise on how we can attract more meaningful investments into our country. We are here to fine-tune our story about the growth and attraction of our sector. We are here to think of ways to convince would-be investors on the potential and capacity of our country.” However, dismissing Danbatta’s view, an industry observer, Ehidiamhen Okpamen, said, “Can we in all sincerity say that the telecoms industry is investor-friendly and can attract more investments? Your guess is as good as mine is. “The cost of doing business in Nigeria is still one of the highest in the world and the hypocritical approach taken by the NCC gives the regulator a false sense that all is rosy for the operators. “It is highly unlikely that prospective investors would be willing to come into the Nigerian market, especially at a time like this, unless there are overwhelming indications that a feasible plan to address the current industry challenges is in place.” Okpamen said that the telecoms industry, as presently constituted, was bogged down by ineffective regulations and riddled with unpredictable and ‘draconian’ policies that allowed the imposition of N1.04tn fine on one of the operators. According to him, MTN failed to comply with the NCC regulations to disconnect lines that were not fully registered, but asked, “Must you throw away the baby with the bath water?” The Managing Director of Rack Centre Limited, West Africa’s most connected data centre, Ayo Coker, said, “It has been challenging.”