 Controversial prophet and pro-Biafra activist, Prophet Anthony Nwoko, says God has rejected the prayers of President Muhammadu Buhari for grace to be good and fair to Nigerians.
This was as blamed the All Progressives Congress, APC , for the challenges presently experienced in the country, stressing that the party disobeyed God’s instruction by “smuggling Buhari into power”. Recall that Buhari, had while playing host to the Imam of the Mosque of the Holy Prophet in Medina, Sheikh Abdul-Muhsin Muhammad Al-Qassimi, at the Presidential Villa in Abuja last week, prayed that God gives him the courage to be fair to all Nigerians. But speaking with newsmen in Enugu, the fiery prophet said the President’s prayer for God’s grace was a medicine after death. According to Nwoko, “I prophesied that Buhari and Jonathan will not win the 2015 presidential election and the APC disobeyed the plan of God for this nation and smuggled Buhari into power with their hidden agenda not to allow the light from southeast to emerge. “Our disobedience to the word of God is what we are witnessing today. Therefore Buhari’s prayer is not accepted by God because he didn’t humbly himself to allow God’s plan to prevail. That is why national leader of APC, Chief Bola Ahmed Tinubu unknowingly revealed that the president is on assignment. “He that thinks he is standing, let him stand strong so that he does not fall.
“Since All Progressive Congress (APC), Buhari led government has no power to kill or destroy the son of man for the second time, let him and his government expect miracle. The Black Saviour which the Nigeria nation rejected has emerged from the southeast of Nigeria to liberate his people the ‘Biafrans’ that is the word of God.” On the alleged Islamization of Nigeria, the Enugu-based prophet maintained that the purported plot by the Federal Government to Islamise the country is real, adding that the Buhari’s APC assignment was already revealed by former Governor of Lagos State, Ahmed Bola Tinubu. Nwoko also stated that the country was experiencing challenges because former President Goodluck Jonathan refused to fulfill God’s mandate which was to usher in the messiah from the southeast to save the country. He stated that the continued detention of the leader of Indigenous People of Biafra, IPOB, , Nnamdi Kanu will continue to hunt Nigeria, stressing that so many strange things have occurred in Nigeria since Kanu was arrested and detained. Nwoko had, in September, warned Buhari not to look for God’s wrath, while advising him to reconsider his stance on the agitation for Biafra.